Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation (HART) has made an appeal to the Honolulu City Council for US$550 million so as to continue with operations as well as pay the rail contractors for the next year for the continuing rail construction that has been largely contested. The Honolulu rail project is currently running on money that has been largely borrowed and has requested for the city to lend money in bonds despite it being time that would not be recommended to make such requests because the estimated cost of the 20-mile rail line along with stations has now grown to US$12.4 billion. This has left HART with a budget shortfall on the order of US$3.5 billion. Also Read: Honolulu rail project secures US$70 mn in COVID-relief bill HART Chief Operating Officer Rick Keene told members of the HART board last month that the rail authority pays out about US$120 million to US$180 million every three months. Most of these funds go to contractors building the rail operating system, the elevated guideway, and the rail stations. But HART receives considerably less than those amounts in excise and hotel tax collections each quarter at around US$80 million to US$90 million per quarter with an even larger drop to US$68 million per quarter or less during the pandemic. Another challenge that the project has recently faced is tracks that are too wide for the trains that have wheels thinner than expected. “One solution that is being contemplated right now is maybe changing the wheels on all of the cars, it’s a faster solution and a cheaper solution, but one drawback to changing the wheels is that you’re adding weight to the cars, and so they’re going to go over the threshold. So you have to subtract weight somewhere. If you have to change the track, that’s estimated to be maybe one year just to manufacture the new track and ship it over here, whereas the wheels could be much quicker.” Lori Kahikina, interim CEO and executive director of the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation stated. 100%