Julius Nyerere Hydropower Station; the largest in the East African Community (EAC) is a US $2.9bn project being constructed across the Rufiji River in eastern Tanzania. The station is expected to have an installed capacity of 2,115MW and will produce 5,920GWh of power annually. The power generated will be evacuated via a new 400kV high voltage power line to a substation where the power will be integrated into the national electricity grid. The 134 metres (440 ft) arched, concrete dam is expected to create a reservoir lake, 100 kilometres (62 mi), in length, measuring 1,200 square kilometres (460 sq mi), with 34,000,000,000 cubic metres (1.2×1012 cu ft) of water. The project is owned and will be managed by the government owned Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO). It is expected to enhance access to affordable electricity which will propel economic growth as well as attract investment in the country. It will also transform the country through generation and supply of reliable electricity for both domestic and industrial use. The government of Ethiopia is advising the Tanzanian government on the implementation of this project. Construction of the fourth largest power station in Africa is expected to be completed in 2022. The Julius Nyerere Hydropower Station project has received criticism from environmental experts because the location of the gorge is in the middle of the Selous Game Reserve World Heritage Site. Conservationists are opposed to this project saying it threatens the endangered animal species in the area especially the black rhinoceros and elephants. Also Read: Nairobi Expressway project timeline and all you need to know Below is the project’s timeline and all you need to know. In August, the Tanzanian government advertised for bids to construct this dam. Despite the underlined criticism of the project, after diplomatic negotiations between Tanzania’s President John Pombe Magufuli and Egypt’s President Sisi in October, the government awarded the design and construction contract for the power project to the Egyptian company Arab Contractors together with the Egyptian manufacturing company El Sewedy Electric, at the budgeted cost of US $2.9bn. A new design for Stiegler’s Gorge Dam was unveiled. It was established that upon completion, this would be Africa’s largest dam by installed capacity (2,115MW). In February, the government handed the construction site over to the contractors. However, actual construction did not start until the summer of 2019 because the contractors needed several months to mobilize construction equipment. In April, the government made an upfront payment of about US $309.6m, taking care of approximately 15% total cost of construction. As of June, the project was 40% complete. By January, the bypass tunnel for the dam site was functional and excavation of the 50m deep dam base was in progress. The three head-race tunnels, which will supply nine penstocks for the nine turbines, were under construction. The nine turbines are each to have a capacity of 235MW. Foundation for the power house was also in progress. In April, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa announced that the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Station project was 45% complete and that once complete, it will be an avenue for Tanzania to get more revenue from increased clients both large factories as well as small users.