Tatu City has appointed SMEC, a global engineering firm as the lead infrastructure consultant for phase two of Tatu Industrial Park project in Kenya. Samuel Gathukia, Project Manager, Tatu City made the announcement and said the firm will oversee the design, tender processing and construction of infrastructure “Following a highly competitive selection process, we appointed SMEC due to its expertise and commitment to excellent service delivery across small and mega projects worldwide. Our partnership with SMEC underpins our commitment to expand Tatu City’s international standard infrastructure to the second phase of Tatu Industrial Park,” said Mr. Gathukia. Tatu City project sits on a 5000-acre land, located 30 minutes from Westlands. Its special nature is promising decongestion in Nairobi, Kenya amidst growing middle-class and urbanization trends. The City project involves mixed-use development with homes, schools, offices, a shopping district, medical clinics, nature areas, a sport and entertainment complex and manufacturing area for more than 250,000 residents and tens of thousands of day visitors. Also Read: Tatu City Project progress and all you need to know 90% of phase one of the park is sold. Among regional and multi-national businesses, Industry leaders at Tatu Industrial Park include; Dormans, Cooper K-Brands, Davis & Shirtliff, Cold Solutions, Copia, Friendship Group, FFK, Twiga Foods and Stecol. Phase two development has already begun and is expected to be completed by the end of May 2022. In the second phase Kenya Wine Agencies, majority owned by Distell of South Africa, broke ground in February on a state-of-the-art, production and distribution facility. Other developments projects in session at Tatu City include construction of schools by Nova Pioneer and Crawford International, as well as more than 5,000 homes under construction and development. Tatu City has also installed solar power plants, in line with its long term commitment to environmental conversation through harnessing renewable energy sources. 80%