The Baccarat Residences  is a 75-story glass tower that is set to be constructed in Downtown Miami and will feature eight penthouses, 324 residences, and 28 riverfront flats and duplexes with the residences start at the 15th level, culminating at the top three floors with the eight penthouses. Residences will range in size from 1,330 square feet to over 7,000 square feet. Each home comes equipped with integrated wellness technology to enhance the overall wellbeing of the residences such as purified air and water; energy-efficient, tinted, impact-resistant floor-to-ceiling sliding glass doors and windows; eight-foot-deep private terraces; ten-foot-high smooth-finish ceilings; gourmet kitchens with top of the line appliances; and high-efficiency central air conditioning and heating systems. An elevated waterfront amenities deck with an infinity pool will offer views across the Miami River and Biscayne Bay. A 10,000 square foot restaurant is also planned for the waterfront. Other amenities include a fitness center; a spa; a wine cellar and tasting room; a chef’s kitchen and private dining room; a hair salon and barber station; electric vehicle charging stations; a private screening room; a game room and children’s playroom; and an elevated 12th level amenities resort deck with a zero-entry heated saline swimming pool, outdoor spa, and summer kitchen. Baccarat Residences Brickell, Miami, will be the sister property to the first residential tower from the brand, Baccarat Residences New York. Exuding the same level of luxury the French company is so revered for, Baccarat Residences will have plenty of nods to the crystal maker’s past. The tower itself is inspired by crystal and will have a chiseled, glass facade to reflect light and the water below. World-famous design firm Meyer Davis hopes to blend 18th-century French design and 1930s Art Deco style. Of course, Baccarat crystals will be seen throughout the building, as will the brand’s signature red hue. Also Read: Miami Multifamily project secures US$32.4 mn funding for construction