if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Construction has begun on the redevelopment of Lonsdale Square in North Vancouver of the existing Harry Jerome Community Recreation Centre. The multi-phased project by local developer Darwin Properties on the 6.6-acre site entails two towers and a handful of mid-rise buildings. The first phase, currently under construction, entails 113 units of secured market rental housing with ample resident amenities and 8,000 square feet of ground-level retail and restaurant space. This six-story building is a partnership with Ontario-based Minto Properties, which is providing construction financing. It is the REIT’s first project within Metro Vancouver Also Read: Construction of Vancouver Broadway Subway in Canada set to begin if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};Also part of the first phase is the first seniors assisted housing complex within the City of North Vancouver in 30 years, a partnership with Sunrise Senior Living with 100 units for assisted living and memory care in another six-story building. The second phase of Lonsdale Square will include condominium homes, additional rental housing, childcare facilities, and the remaining commercial space component. All phases combined of the Harry Jerome Community Recreation Centre, spanning a total floor area of 812,000 square feet, will provide 803 homes of mixed housing tenure, including 126 secured market rental homes, 486 condominium homes, and 91 below-market rental homes operated by a not-for-profit organization, and the 100 units for seniors’ assisted living. The developer will also set aside 2.25 acres on the west side of the block, facing Lonsdale Avenue, for a public park. “The vision for this new community is to create a hub that brings renewed energy, activity, and amenities to the north end of the Lonsdale corridor and to build more housing options for all stages of life in the North Vancouver community. With the new Harry Jerome Community Recreation Centre, this area will become a vibrant, new energy centre on the North Shore. As a North Vancouver company, we have worked hard to create a development that residents can enjoy for generations to come.” said Oliver Webbe, CEO of Darwin Properties, in a statement. 83