The government of Kenya has announced plans to relocate crucial fibre optic cable by end of next month ahead of the construction of the Nairobi-Mau Summit road project. One of the key ICT infrastructure running along the Nairobi-Mau Summit road project is the National Optic Fibre Backbone Infrastructure (Nofbi). The fibre optic ring passes through 58 towns in 35 counties across Kenya. Relocation of the optic cable will be in four lots: Rironi-Naivasha via Mai Mahiu, Rironi-Naivasha, Naivasha-Nakuru and Nakuru-Mau Summit. The new design will integrate into Nofbi and connect to all government sites and institutions along the road as well as to the existing licensed internet service providers and telcos. Also Read:Construction works on Nairobi-Mau Summit Road in Kenya to commence in December State Department of ICT and Innovation will undertake the relocation of fibre infrastructure to minimise downtime. The Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau Summit road project is part of the Trans-African Highway the main transport route serving East and Central African countries from the port of Mombasa. The US $1.4bn Nairobi-Mau Summit road project involves expansion of 175Km road from Rironi to Mau Summit into a four-lane dual carriageway and re-carpeting of Rironi – Mai Mahiu – Naivasha Road (Escarpment Road). Kenya awarded the highway contract to Rift Valley Highway Limited, a French consortium made up of Vinci Highways SAS, Meridian Infrastructure Africa Fund, and Vinci Concessions SAS. The project will be undertaken on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) basis, in which the private sector will raise finances for the road project, design, construct, maintain and operate the road on pre-agreed standards and specifications. The concession for the road is within a time frame of 30 years. The road project is expected to take approximately three years to complete upon which it is expected to significantly reduce the travel time between Nairobi and Mau Summit and the traffic snarl-up experienced on the road.