A new 250 MW solar plant is under construction in Navarro, Texas by Duke Energy. Once construction is completed, the plant will be the largest utility-scale solar facility in the Duke Energy line of sustainable solutions. The Pisgah Ridge Solar project is expected to employ between 200 and 300 construction workers and will bring about indirect economic benefits such as increased local spending in the service and construction industries. The site will also have a positive economic impact on the local community by providing significant tax revenues for the Corsicana Independent School District and is expected to begin commercial operation by the end of 2022. Also Read: Duke Energy gets green light for Woodfin solar plant, North Carolina Charles River Laboratories International, a pharmaceutical company, signed a 15-year virtual power purchase agreement for 102MW of the plant as it aims to source 100% renewable electricity globally by 2030 while two corporations have signed separate 15-year virtual power purchase agreements for the remaining 148MW of capacity. Construction and engineering are being carried out by Moss, while Duke Energy Sustainable Solutions will operate and own the park fully. “We are excited to continue to grow our Texas solar portfolio. It will provide additional energy resources for the citizens of Texas to help meet their growing demand and need for a more diverse energy infrastructure,” said the president of Duke Energy Sustainable Solutions, Chris Fallon. Duke Energy Sustainable Solutions was launched earlier this year as a new commercial brand that unifies products and services offered by several subsidiaries of utility Duke Energy, including Duke Energy Renewables, REC Solar, and Duke Energy One. In Texas, it currently operates 500MW solar and a 36MW battery storage facility. 2020 saw Duke Energy Renewables start operations at its 100MW Lapetus solar plant, 280MWdc/200MWdc Holstein solar farm, and its 200MWac Rambler solar project in Texas, and as part of efforts to become net-zero by 2050, Duke Energy is aiming to reach 16GW of installed renewables capacity by 2025. 85%