The Kilroy Oyster Life Science Development Phase 2 is a project that is currently ongoing and involves 860,000 square feet of office spaces offering a most dynamic community of life science companies and research institutions. The US$940 million project is the second of five projects that have been planned to be constructed in South San Francisco. The Kilroy Oyster Life Science Development Phase 2 will have a fitness facility, conference center, and several catering options as well as outdoor meeting areas like a large amphitheater and recreation areas. Upon completion, Oyster Point will cater to biotechnology and pharmaceutical tenants on the 3 million-square-foot campus. Construction on the waterfront property begun in 2018 however the date of completion has not yet been made clear.  Once complete, this state-of-the-art project will be West Coast’s largest and most dynamic community of life science companies and research institutions. Capitalizing on the waterfront locale and abundant outdoor space, KOP Phase 2 will also feature a large outdoor amphitheater and recreation facilities. This landmark development reflects our commitment to serving life science tenants’ needs while adding value to the greater community by creating a transformative space to be enjoyed by all. Taking that into account, it would be great to know what amenities are available in the neighborhood, and whether you can complete most of your daily tasks on foot. Oyster Point, South San Francisco has a walk score of 24 and a bike score of 58. Almost all errands require a car. The freeway nearest to Oyster Point, South San Francisco is US-101. Also, if you have an electric vehicle and are looking for homes near electric-vehicle charging stations, this neighborhood might be a good fit. There is 13 electric vehicle charging locations in Oyster Point, South San Francisco with 145 level 2 charging points and 2 DC fast charging points.  Also Read: US$750 million arranged for Burlingame Point Office Block, San Francisco 