if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};The Iconic Tower Skyscraper that is being built in the New Administrative Capital (NAC) east of Cairo, Egypt, since May 2, 2018, has been topped off. Speaking during the ceremony, the Egyptian Minister of Housing, Utilities, and Urban Communities, Essam el-Gazzar said that this is the most important building in modern Egypt, which marks the latest achievement of the North African country. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};The construction of the Tower was officially launched in May 2018 by the North African country’s Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly with China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) as the project’s main contractor. Following the civil works, construction of the tower’s core tube started in April 2019. Wei Jianxun, the general manager of the Iconic Tower project said that the core tube was constructed at the fastest speed of one floor every four days. In late February this year, the Iconic Tower’s base, built with approximately 18,500 cubic meters of concrete and 5,000 tons of reinforced iron bars, was completed with a 38-hour non-stop operation, which was hailed by Mostafa Madbouly as “a miracle by all means.” Also Read: Construction works at the proposed Trio V Tower project in Egypt to begin According to Ahmed Al-Banna, the project manager from Dar al-Handasah Shair & Partners, the construction of the tower to the top-off point took approximately 800 non-stop working days. On the other hand, Hossam Berry, the structural manager of the Dar supervision company, thanked the workers and engineers for working around the clock to reach this milestone. Inspired by the shape of a pharaonic obelisk with a glass exterior, the Iconic Tower Skyscraper was designed by Dar al-Handasah Shair & Partners in 2007 with a unique design that makes it appear to twist from a triangular base into a rectangular skyscraper on the way up. The tower is a composite high-rise building integrating office, hotel, business, sightseeing, and other functions. It covers a total area of 65,000 square meters, with two floors underground and 78 floors above the ground. Standing at a height of 385-meter-high and with a total of 80 floors, the Iconic tower will upon completion overtake the Leonardo, a 55-floor mixed-use property development in Sandton, Johannesburg, South Africa that stands at a height of 234 meters, to become the tallest building in Africa. 100