Metito, the leading global provider of water and alternative energy management solutions, has announced the completion and handover of the 150,000 cubic meters/day Port Said Seawater Desalination Plant project. Developed by a consortium made up of Metito and Orascom Construction PLC, a leading global engineering and construction contractor based in Egypt, on an area of 79,000 square meters (including an area designated for future expansions), the desalination plant will serve nearly one million citizens. Also Read: Manfalout sanitation plant in Egypt commences its trial operation It includes initial treatment of seawater by dissolved air flotation (DAF) and then an Ultrafiltration process (UF). The water is then pumped through desalination membranes that operate using reverse osmosis (RO) system, due to the nature of the seawater at the plant site and its containment of a lot of fine-grained suspended matter. According to the global leader and provider of water and alternative energy management solutions, the project was designed to consume the least amount of energy per cubic meter of produced water. “This,” the company said “will positively affect the economics of operation and reduce the carbon footprint of the facility by utilizing advanced methods to recover energy from the wastewater (i.e. highly saline concentrated water)” “The desalination process produces wastes that are highly concentrated with saline and which are disposed of in an environmentally safe manner through a complex chemical process. The water is treated with special acids to equalize the pH level of the wastewater and bring its salinity as close as possible to normal seawater to avoid impacting the marine life in the water drainage area.” explained the company in a press release. Speaking on this milestone, Eng. Karim Madwar, the Managing Director of Metito Africa for Integrated Water Management and Treatment Smart Solutions said that the completion of the Port Said Seawater Desalination Plant project is another step on a path of giant and pioneering projects implemented by Metito in water treatment and alternative energy. “I hope that the project will hugely benefit the residents of the surrounding areas, meet their drinking water needs, and be an effective part of the development projects that Egypt is looking forward to as a general approach,” he concluded. 94