Emirates Steel’s headquarter and warehouse in Musaffah Industrial Area, Abu Dhabi, has received the Platinum Rating for green buildings from Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED v4) awarded by the US Green Building Council (USGBC), achieving 80 and 82 points respectively. This is a new global recognition of Emirates Steel’s success in implementing the highest international standards in green buildings. “Emirates Steel, the leading integrated steel plant in the Middle East, is committed to the highest standards of sustainability and efficiency in all projects and initiatives. Receiving the Platinum Rating for green buildings from LEED highlights our sustainability efforts and leadership. This supports the national plans and strategies promoting natural resources’ sustainability, energy and water conservation, and adopting green practices in every facet of our lives,” said Engineer Saeed Ghumran Al Remeithi, CEO of Emirates Steel. “Our existing headquarter and warehouse building have been upgraded to fulfill the green buildings’ standards. This helped us rationalise our energy consumption, improve buildings’ indoor environment quality, enhance its thermal insulation, find new sustainable solutions for waste management, and other LEED requirements. This helps us maximise our contribution in reducing emissions, promoting sustainability and protecting our environment,” added Al Remeithi. In October 2020, Emirates Steel became the first steel manufacturer in the region and one of the first 50 companies in the world to be verified for LEED documentation for its products. Its high-quality steel products comply with international and local Green Building rating systems, such as (LEED) and Abu Dhabi ESTIDAMA programme. As a member of the worldsteel Climate Action Programme, Emirates Steel is also a recipient of its Certificate of Recognition for its participation in the CO2 Emissions Data Collection Programme in partnership with Al Reyadah carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS) facility. About Emirates Steel Emirates Steel is a leading integrated steel manufacturer in the Middle East region, based in the UAE capital, Abu Dhabi. Through Senaat, Emirates Steel is part of ADQ, one of the region’s largest holding companies with a broad portfolio of major enterprises spanning key sectors of Abu Dhabi’s diversified economy. Established in 1998, Emirates Steel boasts leverages cutting-edge rolling mill technology, and supplies the domestic and international markets with high quality finished products including wire rods, rebars, heavy sections and sheet piles. Emirates Steel is the first steelmaker in the world to capture its CO2 emissions, with the possible exception of some North American manufacturers. The company plays an enabling role in building the UAE’s future and contributes to achieving the Abu Dhabi Economic Vision 2030 and UAE Centennial 2071 through its delivery of market-leading products to local industries and provision of career opportunities for talented UAE nationals.