Construction of the Johannesburg International Transport Interchange (JITI) is nearing completion. City of Johannesburg (CoJ) Transport MMC Nonhlanhla Makhuba made the announcement and said that the project will be launched at the end of June this year. The project is one of City of Joburg’s largest infrastructure developments. At 50 000m², the state-of-the-art interchange is an international long-distance and cross-border transport hub in the CBD. It is set to be a commuter-friendly and the largest public transport facility travellers on the African continent. Johannesburg Development Agency (JDA), on behalf of the City’s Transport Department, has been undertaking the construction works. Construction began in 2014 and was scheduled for completion in 2018 but tenders were cancelled due to non-performance. Also Read: Johannesburg unveils the completed S-bend wall mural project The project will feature a bus terminal for cross-border buses as well as ranking and holding space for 800 taxis ranking space for 158 taxis and ranking for 20 buses. There will be clear electronic signage, CCTV cameras throughout the facility, as well as facilities for the disabled. This will reduce the waiting times of long-distance travellers in the inner city. The advanced access control, which will feature a dual authentication including license plate recognition, is one of the innovations set to ensure that vehicles are operating safely and legally. The latest technology, in green building design has also been incorporated throughout the facility, including extensive solar panels. According to Makhuba, the interchange will see 1500 travellers a day arrive or depart to destinations in the Southern African Development Community regions due to its easy access to transport routes, like the Nelson Mandela Bridge and the M2 Double decker freeway. “Transport is the backbone of Johannesburg’s economy and plays a significant role in connecting residents to education, business and work opportunities. The state-of-the-art JITI will be one of the critical projects which will ensure that efficient mass public transport networks and connections, transit-oriented multi-use precincts, together with strategic land-use planning and zoning regimes are realized to connect people to opportunities to live, work and play in the city,” said Makhuba. 80%