The company FN Neuhofer Holz has been playing one of the first and most important fiddles in the global wood-processing concert for many years now. ‘Made in Austria’ is a seal of quality that is known and respected around the world. The firm has developed a sophisticated paint composition to give a smooth finish for its premium FN white profiles which are available in all shades of white and in different profile shapes. MDF and solid wood (spruce / beech) are the carrier materials. A high-quality paintable surface is offered on all white profiles, whether thick, thin, large, small, straight or curved, and whether modern or conservative, as skirting, lining, ceiling or door frame profiles. In addition to the lacquered premium variant, more cost- effective products are also available as MDF profiles with décor foil or primed. They can be used as supplied or painted to individual color choice. At the moment they do have distribution channels in South Africa, Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria. Agents with business contacts to flooring and flooring accessories customers from African countries are welcome to join their fast growing company who is best known for its innovative products and price wise products. Speaking on the firm’s African footprint Ernst Hamela Key Account Manager, says that, “We are invited via business partner to offer our products for several projects for instances in Kenya, Nigeria, Ethiopia and South Africa this year.” Neuhofer Holz is one of the world wide leading producers of flooring accessories as skirting in MDF, PVC or aluminum and any kind of needed flooring profiles, distributed to the worldwide leading DIY channels and wholesalers as well. Neuhofer Holz does have verifiable competence in product development, production, quality and logistics, to assist our existing and future customers from single deliveries, container to last but not least X-doc deliveries.  Hamela adds that their business partners and agents as well can trust an independent, financially strong and reliable partner in the b2b business. Hamela emphasize that their response to the growing demands of the world market is not only the development and manufacture of innovative products but also the best possible service, short delivery times and a tailor-made logistics concept.  Neuhofer Holz not only offers intelligent solutions with regard to the products, but also professional support with regard to marking and services a strong combination that makes an important difference and brings with it valuable market advantage. Customers can expect fast delivery even for orders at short notice, and the main market can be directly and personally supplied and served by the company itself. The customer decides at the shelf. At this point he or she is influenced by design that is both logical and eye-catching, where FN Neuhofer Holz provides important support. Their logistics center is where all orders − from individual profiles from online orders for their customers in the construction market, through to 40-foot containers − are processed ready for transportation from a floor space of 12.000 m2 and the worldwide partner networks in order to facilitate the best possible distribution of goods as well as a fast and reliable delivery service. They lay emphasis on leading-edge technology, trend-setting innovation, established knowhow and the best possible price/performance ratio. One central point in this regard is the company’s extensive investment in the latest technology (planning machines, coating, interlinking of systems, automation, robots). According to Ernst Hamela, Africa will be one of their future key markets with a high focus of Neuhofer Holz 2021-2027. Thus, the successive expansion of their company site that will soon take place will have a decisive effect on the future. The aim is to create a prestigious location for all customers, partners and employees that better represents the international importance of the brand FN Neuhofer Holz. The linking of warehouse, production etc. will take place in stages together with the optimization of all processes from raw materials to shipping. For the perfect presentation of all products and innovations including examples of use and shelf concepts we plan an impressive and representative showroom.