The Nairobi Expressway Project is a 27.1km road project beginning from Mlolongo through the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) and Nairobi’s CBD to Westland’s area along Waiyaki Way. The over US $560m road project is the first major project in the Kenya to be carried out through a PPP model. The Nairobi Expressway will have a four-lane and six-lane dual carriageway within the existing median of Mombasa Road, Uhuru Highway, and Waiyaki Way as well as 10 interchanges. The section between the Eastern and Southern bypasses will be a six-lane dual carriageway while the section from to the Eastern Bypass and that from the Southern Bypass to James Gichuru will be a four-lane dual carriageway. The elevated highway will begin near Ole Sereni Hotel and run through the CBD along the Uhuru highway up to the James Gichuru junction. Haile Selassie Road, Kenyatta Avenue, and University Way will be below the elevated road. Upon completion, the road is expected to significantly reduce the time spent on Mombasa road at rush hour from approximately two hours to between 10 and 15 minutes. The project is scheduled for completion by December 2022. Below is the project’s timeline and all you need to know. Also Read: Delhi-Mumbai expressway project timeline and all you need to know The project broke ground in October with China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) as the contractor. CRBC is responsible for the design, financing, and construction of the road under a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) framework. The company will also operate the road for about 27 years so as to recoup its investment through the collection of road tolls. In July, CRBC announced that it has successfully completed the foundation expanding of two bridges, indicating that the construction of the first section of the project was in full-swing. “The pouring content is the expanded foundation of No.10 pier and No.11 pier of the viaduct of the Project. The size of the lower foundation is all 11.8 * 5.8 * 1m and that of the upper foundation is all 7.8 * 3.8 * 1m, totaling 199.5m2 of concrete. After pouring, the data tested are normal,” read the statement. The company said that the Project Department has overcome the adverse impact caused by the epidemic situation, made overall arrangements for construction, paid attention to safety protection, quality monitoring, logistics support and other aspects, and ensured the high quality and efficient completion of this pouring task, accumulating valuable experience for subsequent construction and laying a solid foundation for successful completion of subsequent construction tasks. In December, erection of Box Girder for the project was launched ushering a new stage for the project. CRBC said that since the commencement of construction, the expressway project department has planned ahead of time, organized and made overall arrangements scientifically, focused on epidemic prevention and control and highlighted key routes, steadily pushed forward construction and production, and fulfilled the annual tasks and targets ahead of schedule, laying a solid foundation for the smooth completion of the Project.  In March Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) director-general Peter Mundinia announced that four pedestrian bridges will be demolished and relocated to new sites along the corridor to pave way for the Nairobi Expressway project. The first two footbridges are situated at Mlolongo and Imara Daima near Libra House along Kenya’s first-double decker highway; while the other two are situated at General Motors on Enterprise Road and at St Mark’s church in Westlands, Nairobi.