Launched back on August 8, last year in the locality of Ntam by Léon Juste Ibombo, the Congolese Minister of Posts, Telecommunications, and the Digital Economy, the Congo-Cameroon fiber optic interconnection project is almost complete. This information was revealed by the steering committee of the Central Africa Backbone (CAB)-Congo project, which the Congo-Cameroon fiber optic interconnection project is a part of, in a working session that took place on Wednesday, June 2 in Brazzaville. “We have received a report that the fiber optic interconnection network is almost complete with an execution rate of 98%. However we must ensure that this execution rate is real, and also we must have the approval of technical controllers and builders so that we can go to the field to see for ourselves what exactly has been archived,”  said Minister Léon Juste Ibombo. Also Read: National optical fiber network project in Mauritania complete The network in question is nearly 347 km long from the Congolese locality of Ouesso to the border with the neighboring republic of Cameroon. It has points of intersection in Paris, Biesse, Sembé, Souanké and Ntam. The project is being carried out by China Communications Services International (CCSI) or rather China Comservice, which is a subsidiary of China Telecommunications Corporation engaged in providing telecommunication infrastructure services and outsourcing services to telecommunication operators and government organizations. Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., a Chinese multinational technology company that designs, develops and sells telecommunications equipment and consumer electronics is also a part of the project team providing the optical signal and energy transmission equipment. The Congo – Cameroon fiber optic link is expected to exempt the two Central African countries from a future borrowing of international digital routes to collaborate, strongly contributing to sub-regional digital exchanges. “The digital gap between our border areas will also be reduced, allowing citizens to access quality telecom services at more affordable costs,” said Léon Juste Ibombo. 93