if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Danfoss, a market leader in the manufacture of variable speed drives, soft starters, refrigeration components, compressors and switches, recently took part in a number of different road shows around the country, with further events to come. Danfoss is a supporting partner of Eurocool, a leading wholesaler in the HVAC and refrigeration industry, which is part of the Beijer Ref AB Group. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};The Eurocool ‘On the Road’ 2021 Expo kicked off in April, hosted at the Eurocool Middelburg and Pretoria branches. Follow-up events were then planned for Randburg (Gauteng) and Bloemfontein in June, and Cape Town and Durban in July. This expo is intended to demonstrate the latest energy-efficient products, outlining and demonstrating the benefits of the product to the HVAC and refrigeration industry, as well as giving delegates the chance to meet different partners in the industry and interact with them on various technical aspects of the products and solutions. “The events provide an informal yet strongly interactive platform for the HVAC and Refrigeration industry to engage in discussion about challenges and solutions, and discuss the latest technologies available,” explains Roy Naidoo, Danfoss Climate Solutions Sales Director, Danfoss South Africa. Danfoss has presented a number of different topics at the road shows via streaming videos, including wider information on the increased reliability of AC systems and industrial refrigeration trends, as well as more focused, specific topics such as how an HVAC split mini-system works and how to prevent compressor failure, to name just a few. “A presence at live events offers excellent access to a targeted and interested audience, as well as offering the opportunities for networking and staying on top of industry trends and customer pain points. The Eurocool road show events are giving us the opportunity to showcase Danfoss’ credibility and brand, which is why we strongly support the ongoing and enduring value of live events, wherever possible, as a vital complement to online information in today’s digital world, Naidoo concludes. The world stands on the verge of a sustainable transformation. “Today, we have proven and reliable solutions to meet many of our climate, urbanization, and food challenges. Driven by the power of an electrified society and fueled by the opportunities of going digital, Danfoss is dedicated to engineering solutions that can unleash the potential of tomorrow. With the promise of quality, reliability, and innovation deeply rooted in our DNA, we deliver an extensive range of products and solutions across our business segments of Heating, Cooling, Drives, and Power Solutions. This is where the transformation starts – in the way we heat, cool, connect, and feed a growing population. Together with our customers, we help make a greener and better future a reality. Together, we are engineering tomorrow. Our innovative engineering dates back to 1933. Today, Danfoss holds market-leading positions, employing 28,000 and serving customers in more than 100 countries. We are privately held by the founding family,” explains, Lynne McCarthy, Marketing & Communications Specialist, Danfoss Turkey, Middle East & Africa.  