Recently, in the locality of Kong-Kong, in the North region, the managers of Electricity Development Corporation (EDC) provisionally accepted a recently constructed electric grid that will enable 105 villages in Cameroon to be connected to electricity. The electric grid in question is built in the framework of the Project to Strengthen and Extend the Electricity Transmission and Distribution Network (PRERETD) in the Central African country. According to Martin Otele, the coordinator of the PRERETD, currently connection works of the households in the beneficiary regions, particularly the North and Far/Extreme North regions of the country, are being carried out by a Chadian contractor. Also Read: Khoumagueli solar project developer signs 25 years PPA with EDG, Guinea In total, 8,700 connections will be made in these localities, but access to electricity for these households is not guaranteed at the moment due to the problems being encountered in the production of electricity in the northern region of the Central African country. These problems have forced ENEO Cameroon SA, which was formerly known as AES SONEL SA, to carry out electricity rationing. ENEO is the Cameroonian electricity company owned by the US group AES Corporation, a major international electricity player, and the Government of Cameroon. The company owns and operates over 900MW of generation capacity and distributes electricity to more than 900,000 customers in the country. The PRERETD is an investment project covering eight of Cameroon’s ten regions. It stems from the country’s Rural Electrification Master Plan (PDER). Co-funded by Cameroon, the World Bank, and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) the project aims to strengthen and extend power transmission and distribution systems to 423 new localities with almost 335,000 new consumers, especially rural dwellers. It consists of rehabilitation and strengthening of production units in Cameroon; rehabilitation and extension of HV, MV, and LV networks; connections, public lighting, operating and maintenance equipment; IES, IEC, MCE, and training program; studies of the 225 kV Memve’ele-Yaoundé line. 100