Construction is set to begin soon on a new luxury solar and storage, Hunters Point, home community in Cortez, Florida. The community will consist of 86 houses and will be built by Pearl Homes. They will feature the Sonnen ecoLinx energy storage system that has a 15,000 cycle; and each home will have a 6-kW solar system, along with Sonnen’s lithium-iron-phosphate battery technology. The Sonnen ecoLinx can be managed and optimized by a mobile app for solar usage, peak usage, and monitoring energy on demand. The Pearl Homes community has aimed to achieve the highest USGBC’s LEED ranking in its housing developments in Florida and California; NetZero Plus. Also Read: US$26 million issued in permits for Florida apartments “Hunters Point is the first non-utility-based residential Virtual Power Plant ever established in Florida through the aggregation of individual solar systems being paired with Sonnen ecoLinx energy storage systems. The integration of grid-tied Sonnen ecoLinx systems will deliver Pearl Homes residents with resilient backup power and greater energy management, while also providing a dispatch-able energy services platform to support grid stability when needed,” said the Executive Chairman of My-Resi, Jim Spano. “Between the Sonnen mobile application and the Google Nest in-home automation for temperature controls, Hunters Point buyers will be able to enjoy a cleaner, healthier, and unparalleled quality of life well lived in the world’s first LEED NetZero community,” added Pearl Homes founder, Marshall Gobuty. “Marshall and his team at Pearl Homes are at the forefront of NetZero LEED-based home building. From our first discussions about Hunters Point, Sonnen has been amazed at the forward-thinking ideas behind Pearl Homes and its dedication to providing the most energy-efficient, high standards and environmentally advanced homes on the market today. Our ecoLinx intelligent energy storage system is the ideal solution for a project like Hunters Point. It offers unique, innovative software capabilities to empower homeowners to take control of their own energy consumption and manage backup power while also providing critical energy services to the larger community and local utility grid.” said Blake Richetta, Chairman and CEO, Sonnen.