A new 84-unit housing complex is named Haven is under construction in southeast Atlanta. The apartment complex will be located at 57 Hardwick Street, which is currently vacant wooded land adjacent to the Luther J. Price Middle School. It will consist of four, three- to four-story buildings, and a total of 71 units will be available at 50% to 60% of the area median income in an effort to provide affordable housing to residents. Proposed rents for one-bedroom apartments will start at US$544 up to US$1,115 for three-bedroom units, documents show. Construction is slated for completion in late 2022. Also Read: US$30mn invested to develop new hotel at Morris Brown Collage, Atlanta The amenities planned for Haven include a club room, a business center, fitness space, on-site management suite, bicycle spaces, and car parking Residents will also benefit from on-site supportive and social services offered through Focused Community Strategies and Pennrose. Haven is one of the 32 affordable rental housing properties statewide that received some of the US$25.8 million federal housing tax credits awarded by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, approximately US$13 million in capital funds has gone into the Haven community project according to Christopher Nunn, Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs. City Councilwoman Carla Smith said she’s happy everyone could come together to provide more “multifamily, affordable” housing in the city. Pennrose regional vice president Amon Martin called South Atlanta “one of the best-kept secrets” in the city. Invest Atlanta president and CEO Eloisa Klementich said Atlanta is “more than” halfway to its goal of putting US$1 billion into affordable housing. She said her organization has helped to create 2,277 affordable units since last year. Even so, Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said her administration recently learned that communities “still don’t feel like we’re doing enough as it relates to affordable housing.”