if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};The federal government of Nigeria has flagged off the construction work of the 90.65-kilometer Kano-Gwarzo-Dayi highway project, the contract of which was approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) in November last year and awarded to Messrs CGC (China Geo-engineering Company) Nigeria Limited,  a subsidiary of CGCOC Group Co. Ltd, in December the same year. The project mainly involves the rehabilitation and conversion of the entire route, linking Kano and Katsina States, to a dual carriageway. According to the Director Highways (North -West) in the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, the Kano State Government has already dualized approximately 7.2 kilometers of the road from the Bayero University Kano (BUK) axis, terminating at the outskirts of Dayi town in Katsina State. Also Read: Carrefour Rn2-Medina Ndiathbé-Cas-Saldé-Pété road in Senegal opened Upon completion, within a period of 24 months, the dual carriageway will have a total of three bridges, with an additional 7.3 meters and 1.5-meter shoulder-width as well as an outer shoulder width of 2.7 meters. It will also have all the furnishings such as lane markings, kilometer signs, and signage and a lifespan of approximately 20 years. In his remarks, the Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, described the project as important to the people of Kano, Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto, and the Kebbi States. He explained that the reconstructed road would contribute to addressing the security challenges along the project area. The Executive Director of CGC Nigeria Limited, Mr. Fan Xiaojing, on the other hand, thanked the federal government and Kano State for the opportunity given to the company to handle the project, stating that it was an indication that their expertise in handling such project was recognized in the West African country. He affirmed that with the cooperation of all the stakeholders, the job would be delivered on or before schedule.