Zia Business Complex is a mixed-use development in the New Administrative Capital’s (NAC) Downtown area that is expected to bring a sense of vitality, spectacle, and engaging experiences to New Capital’s business district. The project derives its name from an Arabic name “Zia” which means light, and according to the project’s developer- Margins Developments, the complex is, therefore, a place where the light is the essence of life and the Sun is a friend. ZIA is the first building to pursue the WELL certification in the new capital. It was designed to suit a new age of buildings that prioritizes environmental sustainability and the physical, mental, and social wellbeing of its occupants.  “At ZIA we have simply captured the value of human-centric design, understand how nature can inspire the creation of positive spaces, and examine the future of sustainable buildings,” notes the developer. Also Read: Como Lakes Residential Development in NAC, Cairo, Egypt The project spans over an area of 18,000 square meters. With a total of 10 floors and a ground floor, the complex is comprised of a total of 176 units, ranging from 24 square meters to 224 square meters. Two basement floors are set aside for parking and storage, while the ground and first floor will have commercial units. The second and third floors will house medical units while the fifth to the ninth floors will have administrative units. The tenth and the rooftop floors will offer support services for the building.  The Zia Business Complex has amenities such as Hall meeting halls, group, and individual workrooms, running tracks on the rooftop, a multipurpose gym, a restaurant, and outdoor spaces, a water treatment unit, and electric car charging stations. According to Margins Developments’ Vice Chairperson and Managing Director, Ashraf Shaheen, the company intends to deliver the project by the end of 2023. Project Team Margins Developments recently signed a project management cooperation with the UAE’s EFS Group, which is specialized in providing services, facilities management, and creating foundations for sustainable solutions throughout the Middle East. 87