Electric Vehicle (EV) charging systems are expected to be put into place at Eco-Tourism destinations in South Carolina. EV ARC solar-powered EV charging systems will be deployed by Construction Art to power staff, visitors, service, and transport EVs. The solar-powered charging systems will be able to store and generate their own power and are wind-rated to 120 mph and flood-proof to 9.5 feet, well suited for coastal locations and regions subject to tropical storms and seasonal hurricanes. One unit is equipped with two Enel X JuiceBox Pro chargers to charge visitors and staff Electric Vehicles while the second EV ARC system will charge neighborhood electric vehicles (NEVs). The golf-cart style EVs will be used for facility management and transport around eco destinations and includes an emergency power panel that can provide access to 120V/240V power day, night, or during inclement weather. Also Read: Tesla to construct US $1bn electric vehicle manufacturing plant in Texas, US “100% renewable EV charging can be deployed rapidly, with no disruption to operations, facilities, or parking lots, and with no increase in utility costs; because EV ARC units are transportable, the equipment can be moved when a tenant relocates or as charging demand and habits change for a property. Commercial property owners or their tenants can offer 100% renewable EV charging as a value-add amenity, making their properties more desirable,” said Desmond Wheatley, the CEO of Beam Global “I’m always looking to stay on the edge of innovation in sustainability. Our clients focus on high standards for preservation, low impact to nature, and most importantly conservation of area species. The Beam solution will allow Construction Art to deploy EV charging and electricity quickly and without disrupting the area’s environment; we can achieve a zero-emission transportation footprint at all Eco-Tourism Destinations, and because deployment requires no added construction, no permitting, and no electrical work, it helps us keep the project on time and on budget.” said the CEO of Construction Art, Art Krebs. 81%