if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Misr Italia Properties, one of the leading Egyptian real estate developers, has recently announced the launch of two new phases at its flagship project “Vinci New Capital”, which is located at the heart of the Diplomatic District, adjacent to the presidential palace, ministries’ premises, Opera House, Massa Hotel, and the Regional Ring Road on an area of over 110 acres. The new phases comprise the construction of two residential areas (Como Lakes and Imperia Gardens), which will provide a wider range of units and services that will exceed expectations. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};The Como Lakes development is inspired by the Surrealism school of art and construction, a cultural artistic movement that goes back to the early 1920s with developed painting techniques that allowed the unconscious mind to express itself.  It offers standalone villas that will be located within a separate island with unique surroundings and mesmerizing views, twin houses, and townhouses with spaces varying from 256 m2 to 693 m2. Generally, the phase is set to offer big open spaces and views that include soft-scape and water features in addition to exquisite villas overlooking Vinci’s lake. Also Read: Construction works at the proposed Trio V Tower project in Egypt to begin The Imperia Gardens development on the other hand are is inspired by the Art Nouveau style of architecture and construction, which is outstandingly famous for modern arts especially in architecture, paintings, graphic art, and other art-related studies. It will feature smart buildings that provide a wide variety of exquisite homes to cater to different customers with spaces ranging between 138 m2 to 315 m2. The smart building will include Garden villas for the ground and first floors, and Sky Villas for the 4th, 5th, 6th & 7th floors. The apartments will be equipped with modern technology features, such as keyless home entries (by codes and facial recognition), Triple Play technology, motion detection light systems, intelligent lighting that automatically switch off when space is vacant, and co-working space on the ground floor including charging stations, Wi-Fi internet, and internal audio systems for corridors and common areas. Noteworthy, the project provides an integrated commercial area with diversified services. For example, VINCI Street, a large commercial street that the company launched a few months ago, includes various commercial and entertainment facilities and provides spaces for healthcare clinics.  Set to begin next year and be delivered by 2024 at a cost of EGP 2.3 billion, the two new phases will consist of a total of 818 units. Misr Italia Properties has collaborated with companies such as Hany Saad Innovations for interior and exterior design works, Purescape for landscape design, DMA, and Callison RTKL master planning for urban planning and landscape works respectively.