The Vogtle Electric Generating Plant is a two-unit nuclear power plant that is located in Burke County, Georgia and is named after a former Southern Compant and Alabama board chairman, Alvin Vogtle. Both of the units have a Westinghouse pressurized water reactor (PWR) with a General Electric steam turbine and electric generator and were completed in 1987 and 1989; they both produce a combined capacity of 2,430 MW. Also Read: Georgia Nuclear plant reaches milestone in construction March 2013 In March of 2013, construction of the third unit of the Vogtle Nuclear Power Plant began and was expected to begin operation in 2016 pending final issuance of the Combined Construction and Operating License by the NRC however the date has been postponed to 2021. Basemat concrete for the nuclear island was poured officially on March 14 the sam year and by June 2013, the construction schedule had been extended by at least 14 months. November 2013 Construction of the fourth unit of the Vogtle Nuclear Power Plant began with basemat poured on November 21. February 2014 The Department of Energy approved a US$6.5 billion loan guarantee for Southern Company subsidiary Georgia Power and Oglethorpe Power Corp. The Department of Energy initially demanded a credit subsidy fee, but the demand was ultimately dropped given the financial strength of Southern Co. and the Vogtle project. May 2021 Betchel Company, the company constructing both unit 3 and 4 announce that a tank has been set into place representing the topping out of Unit 4’s shield building. The passive containment cooling water tank measures 35 feet tall and has an 85-foot outer diameter. The tank module, which includes outfitting and rigging, weighs 360 tons. The company said the AP1000 plant’s passive safety systems require no operator actions to mitigate potential emergency situations, because they use only natural forces such as gravity, natural circulation and compressed gas to achieve their safety function. This was a major milestone for the nuclear plant that will become the largest nuclear plant in the country once completed. 89