The Tanager Echo constructed by Howard Hughes Corp will feature 295 additional residential units in downtown Summerlin as the second phase of the Tanager multifamily project with two planned five-to six-story buildings which will wrap around a 455-space parking garage allowing tenants direct parking access to their floor of the residence. The unit mix will include studio, junior one-bedroom apartments, and single- and two-bedroom apartments in Tanager Echo. Community amenities at Tanager Echo will include a clubhouse with a co-working space, concierge services, lounge space, private dining room, a two-story entertainment unit with a bar, pool table, gaming area, fireplace and oversized seating for large gatherings, and an outdoor pool area and spa with private cabanas, lounge seating, a fire pit, and barbecue areas. Additionally, the property will feature a top-floor lounge with entertaining space, a catering kitchen, and a private speakeasy lounge, as well as a golf simulator, an on-site dog park, and a dog washing facility. Completion is scheduled for the first quarter of 2023. Also Read: Virgin Hotel opened in Las Vegas  Tanager Echo is designed by Perlman Architects, an architectural and master planning firm specializing in residential and commercial properties. R&O Construction will provide construction management services. “Demand for working close to home is on the upswing both locally and country-wide along with demand for urban-style living surrounded by all the conveniences that make for a fulfilling lifestyle,” said Kevin T. Orrock, president of the Las Vegas region for the Howard Hughes Corporation. In the low-tax, business-friendly state of Nevada, Summerlin continues to attract companies seeking an ideal location where both their businesses and their employees will thrive. Recognized as the community in the Las Vegas area with the strongest connection to nature, Summerlin promotes an active outdoor lifestyle. “Our urban walkability is an attractive amenity for all ages—from millennials to empty-nesters—seeking to customize their footprint while upgrading their lifestyle,” continued Orrock. “While working close to home reduce commutes, office employees in the Downtown Summerlin area enjoy easy access to Las Vegas Ballpark, City National Arena, and to all that Downtown Summerlin offers.” As the rate of families relocating or looking to find new homes in different parts of the country continues to rise, Summerlin has been expanding, with thousands of new residents arriving from cities such as Los Angeles and San Francisco over the past 12 months. The region is expected to continue to draw both companies and residents, with an emphasis on technology, e-commerce, sales & marketing, and entertainment. 83