if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};RealtyPros Investment Global Limited, a leading indigenous Real Estate Company with expertise in Real Estate Development, Dynamic Marketing systems, Training, Management, and Consultancy has launched RealtyPros Investment Network (RealtyPIN), an investment platform aimed at financing the construction of housing projects across Nigeria. Speaking at the product launch, Engineer Obinna Azonobi, the CEO of RealtyPros IGL explained that the initiative seeks to bring a more sustainable solution to risky and unproductive real estate investment and create potential opportunities for investors who are ready. Also Read: A look at the Nigeria Housing Deficit According to Eng. Azonobi the real estate industry has continued to experience unparalleled growth over the decades, but with a population of over 200 million Nigerians, more than 17 million people are still without a home, and considering the current trend in construction, developers aren’t building enough homes to meet this demand. “This may be partly due to challenges such as lack of funds to build, inflation, and constant hike in the price of building materials and skilled labor among other issues. RealtyPin addresses these and other similar challenges. Through RealtyPin, investors can invest in real estate constructions to earn annual returns, the funds invested will then be used to construct affordable homes and acquire land properties for construction in multiple states across the West African Country,” explained the CEO of RealtyPros IGL. Eng. Azonobi went ahead to explain that the RealtyPin will facilitate inclusion in the real estate industry by fostering collaborations in the real estate value chain. “From the diverse network and groups of realtors selling ready homes to construction material suppliers, insurance companies, investment bankers, and Nigerians seeking better ways to put their idle funds to use, all parties jointly work towards the single purpose of building and delivering the next affordable home,” he concluded. The financing Scheme is set to finance the development of over 200 housing units within the next 24 months. 93