Günzburger Steigtechnik is one of the leading suppliers of access technology of all kinds. Its standard range comprises over 2,500 products and ranges from ladders for commercial, public and private use to mobile scaffolding, platforms and bridging steps, as well as rescue equipment and customized special designs. For over 120 years, the Munk family has been dedicated to access technology – with great success. Their company is one of the most prominent in its industry. This ascent of course has reasons: passion and inventiveness have been part of a tradition spanning generations, as well as a clear commitment to their home region. Service: At Günzburger Steigtechnik, service is a top priority: they advise and assist you on everything relating to your access technology requirements. Product configurator: Ordering individual products could hardly be easier with their new product configurator for stairs, bridging steps and mobile platform stairs. Simply enter the desired dimensions, designs and possible accessories step by step – the result is dynamically displayed in real time via a rotatable 3D model and dimensional drawings. After saving the configuration, an offer will be sent by e-mail as the basis for the order. All processes can also be accessed at any time via the personal login. Company’s African presence Working safety is getting more and more important in all aspects of working. More and more companies are improving their safety concept and upgrading in terms of occupational safety. Therefore, safe access technology is required all over the world. Annika Knaier, the Marketing executive states that, “We offer the direct purchase from the manufacturer Günzburger Steigtechnik in Germany. We directly support our African customers from our headquarters in Germany.” The unique aspects of their products Günzburger Steigtechnik is one of the leading suppliers of access technology of all kinds. Its standard range comprises over 2,500 products and ranges from ladders for commercial, public and private use to mobile scaffolding, platforms and bridging steps, as well as rescue equipment and customized special designs. They include working and maintenance platforms, docking systems, walkways and assembly platforms, for example. Industry 4.0 is an everyday reality for the company since its customized products can be adapted automatically to any environment using state-of-the-art control technology. In terms of service, Günzburger Steigtechnik also offers repairs, maintenance and seminars. The innovation and technology leader whose motto is “Climb smart!” is constantly turning heads with its new ideas that offer customers real added value in practical situations. The company has received multiple awards for its innovations, business development, responsible and sustainable activities and as a family-friendly employer. Günzburger Steigtechnik is run by the fourth generation of the same family and manufactures its products exclusively in Günzburg. It was the first manufacturer ever to be audited by TÜV North in 2010 with the certified proof of origin “Made in Germany” and grants a quality guarantee of 15 years on all standard products. The company again ended its financial year with increased sales and has been on course for growth for over 120 years now. Günzburger Steigtechnik employs about 380 people at its company headquarters in Günzburg. Intelligent solutions Made in Germany: They are considered the top name for ladders, mobile scaffolding, special designs and rescue equipment far beyond Europe’s borders. Not least because they offer a quality guarantee of 15 years on their 2,500 standard products, besides that the company always offer products with practical added value. Advice to potential clients Considering all these Annika Knaier urges clients as she states, “Always ensure that your ladder is stable and only set it up on non-slip, level and firm surfaces. Buy your ladder in a specialist shop, because only there you will find the products of quality manufacturers and receive competent advice. Whenever a standard ladder or access solution is not enough to meet high standards of working safety, we create efficient and professional solutions, especially designed for your very special purpose and situation. Whether maintenance platforms, working platforms or walkways. Whether for commercial or rail vehicles, aviation or industrial plants: we offer effective and safe solutions for working at heights and depths that fit perfectly are long-lasting and cost-effective!”