if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Muse Bihi Abdi, president of Somaliland and DP World, a leading provider of integrated logistics solutions have broken grounds for phase 2 expansion at Berbera Port. This follows completion of the first phase of the port’s expansion as part of its development into a major regional trade hub to serve the Horn of Africa. “This is a proud and historic moment for Somaliland and its people, as the completion of the first phase has made our vision of establishing Berbera with its strategic location into a major trade hub in the region a reality. With the new terminal, along with the second phase of expansion and economic zone along the Berbera corridor, we are now firmly positioned to further develop and grow our economy through increased trade, attracting foreign direct investment and creating jobs,” said His Excellency Muse Bihi Abdi. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};The phase 2 expansion at Berbera Port will include the extension of the new quay from 400 to 1,000 meters, and the installation of seven more STS gantry cranes, bringing the total number of the cranes to 10 from three. This phase will enable the port to handle up to two million TEU containers per year, and several large container ships at the same time. Also Read:New Container Terminal Opened at the Port of Berbera in Somaliland DP World has committed to investing up to US $442m to develop and expand Berbera Port. Part of the overall Berbera plan and modelled on DP World’s Jebel Ali Free Zone in Dubai, the economic zone is linked to the port and strategically located along the Berbera to Wajaale road Berbera Corridor. The economic zone will serve as a centre of trade with the aim to attract investment and create jobs, and will target a range of industries, including warehousing, logistics, traders, manufacturers, and other related sectors. It will allow producers, suppliers, and customers to operate in a conducive and competitive environment for investment and trade. “Our further expansion of the port in a second phase, and its integration with the special economic zone we are developing along the Berbera Corridor, reflects our confidence in Berbera and intent to develop it into a significant, world class centre of trade,” Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem, Group Chairman and CEO of DP World. 84