Tender for construction of Phase II of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP) Senqu Bridge construction is ongoing until 18th June. The bridge will be the first extradosed bridge in Lesotho, which combines both prestressed box girder and cable-stayed elements in an efficient design. The construction of LHWP II Senqu Bridge is almost 100m high and has a length of 825m. This is the largest of the three bridges that will be constructed under Phase II to span the Polihali reservoir. The Polihali reservoir in the valleys and tributary catchments of the Senqu and Khubelu rivers, which will be formed by the construction of the Polihali Dam, will have a surface area of approximately 5000 hectares. Besides the three major bridges, the restoration of access across the reservoir also necessitates the construction of new approach road sections to the bridges that tie into the existing A1 road.  The A1 is the main road between the Mokhotlong district in the north-east of the country and the capital, Maseru. Also Read: Construction of Siyoi-Muruny water project in West Pokot, Kenya set to resume eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','1'])); .medrectangle-4-multi-115{border:none !important;display:block !important;float:none;line-height:0px;margin-bottom:15px !important;margin-left:0px !important;margin-right:0px !important;margin-top:15px !important;min-height:250px;min-width:250px;text-align:center !important;}According to Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LHDA)’s Chief Executive Tente Tente, experience and expertise are crucial in delivering a sophisticated, technically challenging project of this kind, which will be one of the few for the LHWP and Lesotho. “Based on our experience with other major works tenders, we are confident that our call for tenders will attract the right mix of expertise and experience,” he said. “With its unique features, the Senqu Bridge will not only form part of the safe and efficient road infrastructure network constructed under Phase II, but will be a major tourist attraction contributing to long term benefits in stimulating sustainable economic growth,” he added. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_5',117,'0','0']));Due to the deep valley and the inaccessible nature of the area where the Senqu Bridge will be built, the deck of the bridge will be constructed incrementally from both abutments.  An in-situ segment midspan of the centre span will connect the two parts to form a continuous deck. This construction method will minimise disturbance to the surrounding area and increase workers’ safety. It is envisaged that a steel launching nose will not be required.  The pier shape is ideal to be constructed with sliding formwork. Work on the bridge design started in 2018, led by Zutari, formerly Aurecon Lesotho. Zutari also designed the Mabunyaneng and Khubelu bridges.  Zutari will also supervise the construction of the three bridges. Specific information on the requirements and conditions of the tender is available on the LHDA website.