TOMRA introduces the TOMRA ACT ground-breaking new user interface, together with a new image processing pipeline and additional process data for TOMRA Insight, enabling improvements in the overall sorting process for greater productivity and profitability. TOMRA ACT: Control without complexity The new TOMRA ACT graphical user interface (UI) heralds a fundamental change in the way customers interact with their machines, making it extremely easy to control the work flow in their sorting process with simple, intuitive, touch gestures and actions on the screen. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','0']));TOMRA ACT provides sorting information and real-time process data at a glance through easy-to-understand graphics. With this clear information, the operator is able to better monitor the sorting process and make fast adjustments at any time. The quick feedback on the machine performance and throughput enables them to optimize the process, maximizing productivity and efficiency.  With the new state-of-the-art UI, the tasks of controlling the sorter feel natural and part of the production process. Ines Hartwig, TOMRA Product Manager, explains: “Throughout the development process of TOMRA ACT, we conducted many in-depth discussions with our customers to ensure we provided them with an interface that would improve the performance of their sorters, benefiting their business. We have been testing it with customers and the feedback has been very positive, in particular about the ease of use, also remotely, which facilitates controlling the process and adjusting settings. With the new interface, customers interact with their sorters in a much more intuitive way and they have better guidance on how to improve the overall handling of the sorters. As a result, they will be able to improve the productivity of their sorting plant and the profitability of their mining operation.” eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));TOMRA is introducing the new UI on all its current X-Ray Transmission (XRT) sorters, and is planning to extend it to other machines in its offering at a later stage. Upgrade packages to update previous models of its XRT sorters will also become available. Enhanced Image Processing: The heart of the sorter The new Image Processing Pipeline analyzes the data sent by the sorter’s sensors and cameras. This solution provides TOMRA with even more flexibility to adjust and customize the image calculations according to the application and the customer’s specific requirements in order to achieve the best possible sorting results. Additional parameters for TOMRA Insight The new enhanced image processing solution also collects detailed process data, such as information on particle size distribution of the feed, belt occupancy which gives useful insights on feed tonnages, or data relating to the health of the sorter. All these statistics are fed to TOMRA Insight, the cloud-based data platform, adding to the process information it has already received. This enables customers to improve the overall sorting process further, taking fast action when changes occur in upstream equipment or in the material’s composition. They are able to better monitor and control their processes, the feed material and the sorted fractions, improving their profitability. The new enhanced Image Processing Pipeline, and additional data fed to TOMRA Insight, are now introduced on TOMRA XRT sorters and will be extended to other products. About TOMRA Sorting Mining eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-leader-1','ezslot_3',614,'0','0']));TOMRA Sorting Mining designs and manufactures sensor-based sorting technologies for the global mineral processing and mining industries. As the world market leader in sensor-based ore sorting, TOMRA is responsible for developing and engineering cutting-edge technology made to withstand harsh mining environments. TOMRA maintains its rigorous focus on quality and future-oriented thinking with technology tailor-made for mining. About TOMRA eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-large-mobile-banner-2','ezslot_10',616,'0','0']));TOMRA was founded on an innovation in 1972 that began with the design, manufacture and sale of reverse vending machines (RVMs) for automated collection of used beverage containers. Today TOMRA provides technology-led solutions that enable the circular economy with advanced collection and sorting systems that optimize resource recovery and minimize waste in the food, recycling and mining industries. TOMRA has more than ~100,000 installations in over 80 markets worldwide and had total revenues of ~ 9.3 billion NOK in 2019. The Group employs ~4,500 globally and is publicly listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange (OSE: TOM).