eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));Sterling Construction Company, Inc has announced that its subsidiary, Road and Highway Builders has been awarded a US$135 million heavy civil contract by the City of Los Angeles for the construction of the North Haiwee Dam No 2 in Inyo County, California. The project, expected to begin in May, consists of mining and processing one million cubic yards of material for the multiple zoned embankment dam. Since no bedrock is present at the site, Sterling will drill more than 13,000 individual cement, deep-soil shafts for the dam footing. Each individual shaft is from 40 to 60 feet in length and 5 feet in diameter. The project will also involve the rerouting of the Los Angeles Aqueduct, which supplies clean drinking water to the city of Los Angeles, to allow for the appropriate tie-ins for the dam construction. The project will take approximately four and a half years to complete. Also Read: Section of California high-speed train faces US$800 Mn overrun The Project is to improve the seismic reliability of the North Haiwee Reservoir through the construction of a new dam, North Haiwee Dam No. 2 (NHD2), in order to maintain the function of an essential water conveyance infrastructure for the City of LA, as well as to protect local populations from a hazardous flooding event. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));“We are extremely pleased to have been selected by the City of Los Angeles to construct NHD2,” stated Sterling’s CEO, Joe Cutillo. “The purpose of this new dam is to improve the seismic reliability of the North Haiwee Reservoir and maintain the function of an essential water conveyance for the city of Los Angeles as well as protect the local populations from the possible hazardous flooding event. This project is an excellent example of how we are executing our strategy to diversify our mix of Heavy Civil work towards higher-margin opportunities by leveraging our broad range of construction capabilities and expertise.”