eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));Universal Orlando’s Epic Universe has resumed construction after breaking off due to the global pandemic. Universal Orlando announced that the restart will begin immediately but is expected to take several months before reaching full-speed “as Universal re-staffs for the project and reassembles its vendor and contractor teams.” Universal says the restart will result in hundreds of jobs within Universal and thousands of jobs across Central Florida. The theme park will also create more than 14,000 permanent jobs in addition to the thousands of jobs that will be created during its development. The new park was set to open in 2023. Also Read: University of Miami proceeds with US$36 million Science Institute Epic Universe, Universal Orlando fourth theme park, will feature an entertainment center, hotels, shops, restaurants, and more. It will be located on a 750-acre site that nearly doubles Universal’s total available acreage in Central Florida. It will be located a few miles from Universal Orlando’s current theme parks. Theme park fans say once it opened, the new park would be an exciting addition to Universal Orlando. “We are excited to begin work on Epic Universe again and for what this moment means for our industry, our community, our business, and our team members,” said Tom Williams, Chairman, and CEO for Universal Parks & Resorts. “Our confidence in our collective future is as strong as ever.” eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));“The restart of construction of Universal Orlando Epic Universe is a terrific moment for our employees and for our theme park business in Florida,” said Brian L. Roberts, Chairman, and CEO of Comcast Corporation. “It is our single-largest investment in the state and represents our enthusiasm for the spectacular park and the economic opportunities it will generate.” The company is seeking to turn its two-park resort into a weeklong travel destination, not just a two- or three-day trip for families.