The government of Egypt has awarded a contract for the design, supply, construction, operation, and maintenance of El Hamam agricultural wastewater treatment plant, which is expected to be the largest of its kind in the whole world. The contract was awarded to a joint venture made up of; Orascom Construction PLC, a leading global engineering and construction contractor primarily focused on infrastructure, industrial, and high-end commercial projects; Hassan Allam Construction, a division of Hassan Allam Holding-Egypt’s leading privately owned engineering, construction and infrastructure companies operating on a stand-alone basis. The Arab Contractors (Osman Ahmed Osman & Co.), one of the leading construction companies in the Middle East and Africa; and Metito, a global leader and provider of choice for total intelligent water management solutions with operations covering three business areas namely design and build, specialty chemicals, and utilities, also make up the joint venture contracted to build the El Hamam agricultural wastewater plant. eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_11',115,'0','0']));The US$ 739M agricultural wastewater treatment plant has a planned capacity of 6 million cubic meters of water per day. Its delivery capacity will be achieved by collecting and transporting agricultural drainage water from the north of the Nile Delta to the plant through a 120-kilometer-long course. The treated water will then irrigate up to 500,000 feddans of irrigation land west of the Nile Delta area. Also Read: Elsewedy Electric to build Houd Negaih wastewater treatment plant, Egypt eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));This iconic national project is part of the state’s strategy to expand Egypt’s agricultural area, develop the West Delta region, and create new sustainable communities. The aim is to have a myriad of positive economic and social impacts in the North African country and beyond. In related news, the International Cooperation Ministry and the African Development Bank (AfDB) recently signed an over US$ 130M financing agreement that would go towards installing wastewater utilities in the rural areas surrounding Luxor. The funding is expected to benefit 22 000 households and 236 000 citizens in the long-run.