The UAE national steelmaker intends to supply local and regional markets with high-quality Hot Rolled Coils (HRC) Emirates Steel, the leading integrated steel plant in the Middle East, announced its plans to add Hot Rolled Coils (HRC) to its wide-range products portfolio so that it can mainly meet the needs of the local and regional markets of the high-quality flat products. This is aligned with the goals of Abu Dhabi Economic Vision 2030 to increase competitiveness through diversification, flexibility and innovation, and Emirates Steel’s efforts to promote the contribution of the industrial sector in UAE’s sustainable development. Emirates Steel is currently conducting a comprehensive evaluation for the project to construct the fully automated first-of-its-kind HRC plant in MENA region. Upon completion, the new plant is set to boost Emirates Steel’s production capacity to exceed 5 million tones per annum.  Thanks to the latest technologies, the new plant will have the lowest carbon footprint in the region. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','0']));The new flat products serve several industries and applications including automotive, electrical steel, shipbuilding, boilers and pressure vessels, gas cylinders, heavy metal structures, offshore structures, general construction, machine components, pipes and tubes, household appliances, and structural steel, among others. Engineer Saeed Ghumran Al Remeithi, CEO of Emirates Steel, emphasized that Emirates Steel strives to provide its customers with a full range of high-level products and comprehensive steel solutions. “After completing the evaluation process, we plan to meet the increasing demand on HRC and flat products in local and regional markets through the new expansion of its assets and operations. Launching our new HRC products is part of our growth plans which aims to maximize our contribution to UAE industrial sector,” said Al Remeithi. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));“Over the last two decades, Emirates Steel gained its solid reputation by providing the best-in-class products including rebar, wire rod, heavy sections and sheet piles. Adding to that, the new strategic project promotes our position as a leading integrated steel manufacturer across the MENA region. It drives our vision to be among the top global steel producers,” concluded Al Remeithi. Emirates Steel is the largest producer of heavy and jumbo sections, and the only producer of hot rolled sheet piles in the region. The company is the fourth steelmaker in the world to receive the ASME accreditation to produce nuclear grade rebar. The Abu Dhabi-based steelmaker is the first manufacturing company in the Middle East and among the first 50 companies in the world to be verified for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) documentation. About Emirates Steel Emirates Steel is a leading integrated steel manufacturer in the Middle East region, based in the UAE capital, Abu Dhabi. Through Senaat, Emirates Steel is part of ADQ, one of the region’s largest holding companies with a broad portfolio of major enterprises spanning key sectors of Abu Dhabi’s diversified economy. Established in 1998, Emirates Steel boasts leverages cutting-edge rolling mill technology, and supplies the domestic and international markets with high quality finished products including wire rods, rebars, heavy sections and sheet piles. Emirates Steel is the first steelmaker in the world to capture its CO2 emissions, with the possible exception of some North American manufacturers. The company plays an enabling role in building the UAE’s future and contributes to achieving the Abu Dhabi Economic Vision 2030 and UAE Centennial 2071 through its delivery of market-leading products to local industries and provision of career opportunities for talented UAE nationals.