Kileleshwa’s Next Residential Attraction Kileleshwa is one of Nairobi’s most sought-after residential neighborhoods by young, upwardly mobile first-time home owners or renters.  The Kileleshwa community is a mix of local and expatriate individual and family city dwellers with a taste for fine living. The suburb has everything they need – good road infrastructure, proximity to shopping malls, healthcare facilities, international schools and social amenities including a bustling nightlife. The area is also one of the greenest, with a mix of indigenous and exotic trees dotting the entire suburb. It is therefore not surprising that many developers have decided to invest in this area. In recent years, numerous apartment complexes have been completed and several others are in different stages of construction. Clients are spoilt for choice and developers have had to be more creative in terms of designs and facilities in order to maintain an edge over the competition. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0')};if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0_1')}; .medrectangle-4-multi-115{border:none !important;display:block !important;float:none;line-height:0px;margin-bottom:15px !important;margin-left:0px !important;margin-right:0px !important;margin-top:15px !important;min-height:250px;min-width:250px;text-align:center !important;}Elina Residences promises to be one of the most elegant developments yet. Situated on Mandera Road, the project consists of 66 three-bedroom apartments and four 4,200sqft duplex penthouses inspired by contemporary suburban lifestyle. The apartments are designed to offer a warm, family environment for residents. The development, which sits on 0.8 acres of land, is a great choice for homeowners looking for functional yet aesthetic apartment design. At the same time, the units are designed to deliver attractive returns to investors. The property’s functional yet aesthetic design is inspired by contemporary suburban lifestyle with a penchant for an elegant yet warm, family environment. The designers have kept in mind the need for customization to suit individual residents’ with tasteful finishes and bespoke interiors, qualities that saw the project emerge winner of the 2018 Real Estate Excellence Awards. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};The project is one of the latest by fast-growing Nairobi real estate developer, Purple Dot International Limited. The company has already made huge strides in the sector and is the largest warehousing developer in Athi River with over 4,000,000 square feet of light industrial space including Graylands Phase 1 to 3. Other notable projects include Serene Park Villas on Mombasa Road and Marigold Residency townhouses in Langata. For Elina Residences, Purple Dot International selected Sketch Studio, a respected architectural studio in the city that is behind some of the iconic developments in the country, to lead the project team. Sketch Studio’s portfolio cuts across residential and commercial architecture, interior design and project management. It is associated with the proposed Pinnacle Tower (tallest building in Africa), Tune Hotel, Lakeview Estate and Imperial Court among others.  if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};According to Purple Dot General Manager Jiten Kerai, the company’s choice of Kileleshwa as the location for Elina Residences was a strategic one.  “Real Estate remains an attractive and vibrant sector and continues to be one of the growth drivers for our economy. For this project, we did our due diligence, spoke to our clients on what they would like in a house, and then incorporated their feedback in this design”, he says. Features Apartment buyers at Elina Residences will experience 2,300 square feet of living space with good cross ventilation and natural lighting. Features include cloak room, open plan kitchen, pantry/laundry area and spacious en suite bedrooms, a passage designed for multifunctional personalized use including prayer area as well as a bar and a reading area. Others are large windows for maximum natural lighting and warm ambience with selected tile colors. The living room features gypsum ceiling with timber fins, matt finished solid timber Finnish pine doors and vitrified wood look tiles. Modern clean-line warm bathrooms with wall mounted vanities, large wall-mounted mirror with shelving, concealed wall mounted systems with flush plates are other features that make the apartments a delight to live in. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-leader-1-0')};The developer went for a practical open plan kitchen with breakfast bar in modern matt laminate and high gloss finish. A hood and gas top are provided in all units with provision for appliances like double door fridge, microwave and washing machine. The duplex penthouses have similar exquisite finishes but have 4 bedrooms and are much more spacious, occupying 4,200 square feet. “In today’s world, technology has robbed the family of quality time together. People are constantly on gadgets and electronics and there is little time to interact as a family. What we have done with the designs of these houses, is that we have purposely put an open plan kitchen and dining area to give families time together as long as they are in the house,” said Jaspal Singh, the project’s lead architect during the launch of the three-bedroom show house. Facilities Al parking has been provided in the basement, freeing up space in the compound. Each apartment has been allocated two parking slots and additional parking has been provided to visitors. The residences will be served by four high-speed lifts. Residents will enjoy a fully equipped gym, an event hall and a panoramic view of the city from the duplex penthouses. Access Elina Residences is easily accessible from Waiyaki Way/Westlands, Riverside, Uhuru Highway/CBD, Lavington, Kilimani and Upper Hill with social amenities within a few minutes of the development. Construction Timeline and Buyer Options if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-large-mobile-banner-1-0')};The Kes 1.3 billion project kicked off in April 2019 and is expected to be complete by July 2021. Already, 60 percent of the units have been sold off-plan. Flexible mortgage arrangements have been made with partner banks. Challenges This year, the biggest challenge across the board has been the Covid-19 pandemic.  The construction industry was also significantly affected with projects suffering delays due to movement restrictions and a slow-down in credit approval. The restrictions imposed in Kenya between March and July affected the Elina Residences schedule but the developer is confident of making up for lost time and completing the project by next July. WHAT THE ELINA RESIDENCES OFFER AT A GLANCE 3 Bedroom Ensuite Apartments 2,300 square feetOpen plan layout in the living areaFull height sliding doors that create a seamless flow from inside to outsidePanoramic view of suburban Nairobi.3 all ensuite bedrooms4 bathroomsParking for 2 4 Bedroom Duplex Penthouses 4,200 square feetOpen plan layout in the living areaFull height sliding doors that create a seamless flow from inside to outsidePanoramic view of suburban Nairobi.4 all ensuite bedrooms5 bathroomsParking for 4 Project Team Client: Purple Dot International Ltd Architect: Sketch Studios Main Contractor: Shreerag Enterprises Ltd Quantity Surveyor: Getso Consultants Ltd Civil/Structural Engineers: Civil Engineering Design Electrical: Raicha Electro Services Ltd Plumber: Kerai Water Build Ltd Aluminium: Swastik Aluminium Ltd Joinery Works: Woodways Kenya Ltd Lift Supplier: Endeavour Wintech Eleavators Ltd Fabrication Work: Shreeji Darshan Enterprises Ltd Granite: Hi-Tech Granite Industries Ltd Insurance: Bapa Insurance Brokers Ltd Project Management: G A Realtors Ltd Sanitary Suppliers: Kitchen and Beyond Ltd Selling Agents: Pam Golding, Dunhill Consulting and others 