eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));New JFK Airport construction deals for a US$15 billion modernization project of the airport that was recently announced after New York City extended the airport’s lease to 2060 create 20,000 jobs. The project will require 30% minority hires and 7% women hires across all construction trades with a higher 40% minority hires among Laborers; best efforts to hire from zip codes around JFK Airport followed by all of Queens. The New York Mayor, Bill De Blasio signed an emergency executive order to extend the Port Authority’s lease at JFK Airport from 2050 to 2060 without ULURP. Working with Rep. Meeks and Queens Borough President Richards, and building on the work of the JFK Redevelopment Community Advisory Council appointed in October 2018, the leaders helped secure the community benefits package and a commitment that the Port Authority will require the projects be subject to Project Labor Agreements. Also Read: Legoland New York reaches final construction stage Plans to redevelop the airport in Queens stalled last year as the coronavirus pandemic decimated passenger numbers and airline revenue world-wide. The airport’s operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, spent the past year renegotiating deals with private-sector consortiums of airlines, terminal operators, and developers, who were expected to finance more than US$10 billion of the redevelopment plans. But the negotiations were hindered by the airport lease, which was set to expire in 2050, leaving investors with too little time to complete lengthy construction projects, recoup costs and make a profit. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));The JFK airport redevelopment was supposed to begin in the middle of 2020, scheduled to be completed by 2025. Ben Branham, the Port Authority spokesman said the lease extension should help the agency restructure deal terms and begin construction in the second half of this year. Under the current airport lease, the Port Authority pays the city just over US$150 million annually. The extension provides for an additional US$5 million a year, the Port Authority said.