if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0')};RAAM Construction has begun construction on an affordable multifamily housing complex in Palmdale, California named Juniper Grove. The 123,410 square-foot property will consist of 101 apartment units in a three-story wood-frame building in Palmdale, a low-income area where budget-friendly housing for families is scarce, according to Richard Lara, the President, and CEO of RAAM Construction. RAAM is working closely with Meta Housing Corporation, a developer of affordable housing communities for families and seniors, to deliver the new residences for qualified low-income families in the Palmdale market. Valued at US$ 33.3 million, the project is being developed with the help of a construction loan from the City of Palmdale, Pacific Western Bank, and the Los Angeles County Development Authority. Also Read: Linc Housing begins construction of affordable supportive apartments, LA When construction is completed, Juniper Grove will contain 49 one-bedroom apartments, 27 two-bedroom apartments, and 25 three-bedroom apartments that are fully furnished. The three-story wood-frame building will be built to LEED standards and will have solar panels. The development will also include common-area amenities such as a community room, office area, and an art studio, which will be occupied by a full-time art staff offering art lessons. The multifamily property will also offer plenty of open spaces for a playground and visitors, as outdoor space has become increasingly important in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. “This new affordable housing project is demonstrative of our continued commitment, along with our long-time partner Meta Housing, to provide budget-friendly housing in regions throughout California where it is needed most,” says Lara. “RAAM has a long history of working with development partners that are committed to delivering high-quality affordable housing in areas of need. We make it a point to go over every detail of the scope of work and carefully review and understand the site plans from the earliest stages to craft an accurate project schedule and budget.”