eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',114,'0','0']));New York Transco has begun construction on the 345kV New York Energy Solution transmission line upgrade works. The first phase of the US$530m project to upgrade transmission between Rensselaer County and Dutchess County recently received approvals from the state of New York. The upgrading of the transmission line aims to ease existing electricity bottlenecks and allow for greater use of renewably-generated energy produced upstate while improving grid resiliency. It will involve the creation of a new 345kV transmission line across 54.5 miles. Construction works will begin at the Churchtown Switching Station in Claverack, Columbia County. The first phase will see the rebuilding of the switching station and the installation of a temporary bypass electric line. Also Read: New York Governor approves Major Transmission Line project The second phase of the New York Transco Transmission line project covers all other aspects of the project and was recently filed for regulatory review. As part of this, New York Transco will upgrade and replace existing 80-year-old structures with about 230 fewer, more modern structures. The project is expected to be in-service by the end of 2023. New York Governor, Andrew Mark Cuomo, said: “The development of a clean, reliable transmission system for New York is key to combating climate change and achieving our nation-leading clean energy goals. This project is an integral part of a new energy superhighway that’s being built to move electricity across the state more efficiently, while also creating new jobs and opportunities for New Yorkers that will help to reinvigorate our local and statewide economies.” eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_3',115,'0','0']));Transco said the project will work with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) to use skilled union workers to replace and upgrade existing transmission infrastructure in portions of Rensselaer, Columbia, and Dutchess counties. When completed, the project will help relieve transmission system congestion and facilitate a more efficient and reliable flow of renewable energy from upstate resources to customers.