Wherever you are living, an apartment building or a house, there is a need to consider sound proofing your home. This is to prevent unwanted sounds from entering your residential space like a noisy neighbor, noisy traffic and more. That is why acoustic insulation is as important as thermal insulation. The sound can be either airborne or vibrations made by impact. The first kind includes horns, music, and crowd noises while the second includes sounds from an industrial area like metal clanging and drills. Sound proof insulation is not only for residential areas. The main environment which requires acoustic insulation is recording studios. The acoustic floor insulation is also done in these structures. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0')};Professional audio recording requires a supreme quality of noise reduction. Similarly, other usual places where you need to soundproof are the halls or auditoriums where musical performances are held. There are multiple options available in the market which can make your home insulated from both heat and sound. For example, using the Rockwool RWA45 insulation slabs can give you value for your money. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Acoustic insulation can be achieved in several ways. A few of those are by using blown-in insulation, batts, or expanding spray foam. Each of them has its own value and strength. Sound proofing methods will vary with ease of installation and some of them are specific for a particular area in the construction. So here are the 4 top ways to go about sound proofing your home Blown-in insulation is made of fiberglass and cellulose particles which are blown to keep sound out. This is one of the best ways for thermal insulation and for reducing heating and cooling costs. Blown-in insulation is also a great way to update your existing insulation material. The fluffy insulation is sprayed all over the attic floor, and other openings are closed with fiberglass insulation to prevent air from escaping. The insulation is spread evenly on the attic floor. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};This allows you to isolate the sounds from inside the house and noise from outside. The high noise reducing capability and ease of installation make it one of the best choices for attics. It can be installed more quickly compared to batts or rolls. Spray foam insulation is considered the future of insulation. It is easier to install but is expensive compared to other insulation materials like acoustic insulation boards. Polyurethane is one of the major components of foam. It can be sprayed onto surfaces and can properly cover all crevices and leaks. The foam expands to fill the cracks quickly to prevent air and moisture leakage. There is very little chance of mold formation, and it also prevents pollen and other allergens from entering your home as well. But an expert is needed to install the rockwool insulation, and it will be a long process. Also, the upfront cost is high compared to other conventional insulation. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-leader-1-0')};These are the commonly used acoustic insulation material used for insulating walls. They can also come in handy while soundproofing floors, especially in multi-storey buildings. Acoustic batts are special insulation batts that are very much similar to thermal insulation batts in looks. Just like the thermal batts, these also vary in densities and thicknesses. The more the density, the more soundproof it will be. The Rockwool RWA45 is one of the best options if you are looking for both thermal and acoustic insulation. The range of insulation slabs from Rockwool RWA45 comes in varying thicknesses. Across all of those varieties, the density is 45 kg per cubic meter. Rockwool Flexi is a special insulation slab that has a flexible edge on one side. This makes it easier to install in the hardest places, like edges and intersections of walls. Rockwool acoustic insulation slabs need no maintenance once installed, and it has a water repellent seal that prevents damage because of moisture. The RWA45 insulation that is the thickest is the Rockwool RWA45 100mm. The RWA45 100mm is the perfect choice for walls, floors, roofs, and industrial institutions as well. Along with the quality acoustic insulation, it is rated Euroclass A1 non-combustible. This means great fire resistance, which can stay strong even in temperatures as high as 1000 degrees Celsius. That is why Rockwool RWA45 acoustic insulation slabs are one of the best choices for all-around insulation. While planning to insulate your homes, do not forget to soundproof the doors and windows as well. Take special measures to insulate the floors too. You do not want squeaky floorboards when guests are visiting. Choose something that can get you the best results. Always prefer a durable and cost-effective solution for sound proofing your home. Apart from normal insulation materials that can be used in walls, floors, and ceilings, there are windows that can soundproof a room. These can provide you with an added layer of acoustic insulation but can be expensive.