The Masindi Barracks Health Centre IV has been commissioned in Masindi district, Uganda. The US $1.7m project is expected to boost health service delivery in the region. The health centre, whose construction started in September 2019, is nine months behind schedule due to COVID-19 pandemic restrictions. The project involved an extension and renovation of structures and is within the Masindi field artillery UPDF Barracks, located in Northwest of Uganda. It is about 4.5km away from Masindi Town, 210km away from Kampala – capital city of Uganda and approx.70km from Karuma Hydropower Project. The project comprises of seven new buildings/facilities and extension to the already existing seven buildings. The seven new buildings/facilities include laboratory, surgical ward, theatre, mortuary, two Nurses’ Houses and one Doctors’ House. It was constructed by Excel Construction Limited. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));The project is part of the CSR projects that Sinohydro committed to deliver to communities as part of Karuma hydropower flagship project. Also Read: New Chiromo Mental Health Hospital eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));According to Uganda Electricity Generation Company Limited (UEGCL) head of communication, Enock Kusasira, Masindi Barracks Health Center was selected as an ideal project because it already had existing facilities and services, and given the fixed budget at hand, the available funds would be able to do more on an existing site. The facility is expected to solve ailments of all types. It will serve 2, 500 persons; 70% will be civilians and 30% members of the UPDF in Masindi and neighboring communities. The minister of energy and mineral, Mary Goretti Kitutu said that the facility will improve the working conditions of health workers at the facility and improve the health living conditions of the people of Masindi and surrounding communities. “The commissioning of the facility gives hope to the country that Karuma Hydropower dam and related projects are yet to be commissioned but still benefit the people,” she said as she led the commissioning ceremony alongside other top government officials and personnel from Uganda Peoples Defence Forces.