A new mixed-income apartment complex at Bartlett Station in Roxbury, Boston has begun. The complex will have 60 units that will conclude the first phase of the five-phase redevelopment of the former MBTA Bartlett Bus Yard in Nubian Square. The 60 new apartments currently being constructed at Bartlett Station Building A will join a 60-unit, mixed-income rental apartment building and a 16-unit condominium building that was completed on the site in August 2019. The non-profit Nuestra Comunidad Development Corporation and Windale Developers, Inc. are partnering to redevelop the formerly vacant, eight-acre brownfield site into approximately 380 new homes for working families, including 166 homes for purchase, 214 apartments and 30,000 square feet of commercial space. The transformation of the former bus yard will occur over five phases. The development project is anticipated to generate approximately 100 retail jobs and 900 construction jobs, with 60 percent of the jobs going to workers of color. Also Read: New design proposal for US$1 Bn Allston Project , Boston. The new affordable and workforce housing currently being constructed at Bartlett Station’s Building A is being delivered through a broad array of financing sources including, MassHousing, the Massachusetts Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD), the City of Boston, Boston Medical Center, and tax credit equity from an allocation of federal and state Low Income Housing Tax Credits. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0')};Of the 60 new apartment homes at Building A, 16 will be restricted to households earning up to 30 percent of the Area Median Income (AMI), of which eight units will be supported by the federal Section 811 program for disabled individuals, and eight units will be supported by federal Section 8 housing assistance subsidy. 12 units will affordably be to households earning up to 50 percent of AMI, with four of those units supported through the Massachusetts Rental Voucher Program. Twenty-three units will be affordable to households earning up to 60 percent of AMI and nine units will be workforce housing units for households earning up to 80 percent of AMI. The Area Median Income for Boston is US$119,000 for a household of four.