Vectorworks Partner Network creates collaborative global community and opportunities to connect with 685,000-plus Vectorworks userbase Today, global design and BIM software provider Vectorworks, Inc. announces its Vectorworks Partner Network, offering an engaged and diverse group of technology organizations in the architecture, interior architecture, landscape architecture, landscape design and entertainment design industries that bring transformative solutions to embolden a designer’s vision and creativity. “Our network of global partners are innovators and collaborators who create solutions that empower designers to transform the world with great design,” said Vectorworks CEO Dr. Biplab Sarkar. “Together with our partner community, we’ll pioneer and deliver innovative solutions, address customer pain points and maximize user workflow efficiencies. Our promise for all stakeholders in our partner network is that collectively, we’re better together and customers are better off with our partnerships.” if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0')};if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0_1')}; .medrectangle-4-multi-115{border:none !important;display:block !important;float:none;line-height:0px;margin-bottom:15px !important;margin-left:0px !important;margin-right:0px !important;margin-top:15px !important;min-height:250px;min-width:250px;text-align:center !important;}The network will offer three partnership categories: The Vectorworks Partner Network builds off decades of successful partnerships. Many credible and trusted partner brands reside in the network as it launches including Nemetschek Group sister brands Bluebeam, dRofus, Maxon, Solibri and Scia, as well as Enscape, Lumion, MA Lighting International, NBS Chorus, Robe lighting, Siemens, to name a few. Earlier this month, Vectorworks announced its Unreal Engine partnership along with its Vectorworks 2021 Service Pack 3 release and now Epic Games will also join the partner network. About Vectorworks, Inc. Vectorworks, Inc. is an award-winning design and BIM software provider serving the architecture, landscape architecture and entertainment industries in 85 countries. Creating intuitive software since 1985, we’ve become the preeminent software built to manage the entire design process. Globally more than 685,000 users are creating, connecting and influencing the next generation of design with Vectorworks on Mac and Windows. Headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, with offices in Newbury and London, England and Vancouver, Canada, Vectorworks is a part of the Nemetschek Group.