if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3-0')};A new 429 apartment mixed-use community apartment, Modera Six Pines is under construction in The Woodlands, Houston, Texas. Mill Creek Residential, a leading developer and operator specializing in premier rental communities announced that the Modera Six Pines is part of an 11-acre master-planned development in conjunction with Life Time Fitness. The five-story, podium-style community is being constructed with a modern, European-style aesthetic and will include a deluxe array of common-area amenities. First, move-ins are slated for spring 2022. Located at 8900 Six Pines Drive, Modera Six Pines is situated just north of The Woodlands Town Center, home to a host of dining, shopping, hotel, and entertainment options. The community represents a prime location for outdoor enthusiasts, in addition to those craving entertainment and shopping opportunities without having to deal with the hustle and bustle of downtown metro locations. The Woodlands Mall, Lake Woodlands Crossing, and Market Street, an award-winning mixed-use town center with a movie theater and day spa, are all within one mile of the community. Also Read: Three companies sign solar PPA for Noble Solar project, Texas As part of the wellness-inspired development, Life Time Fitness is building a 175,000-square-foot health center adjacent to the community. Multiple parks are also within reach, offering ample opportunities for recreational pursuits. The Woodlands Waterway and pedestrian walkway are gateways to an abundance of entertainment outlets, including a public art walk and a koi garden to be enjoyed year-round. Nearby Hughes Landing supplies the area with upscale eateries and Class-A office space. Nearby employers include Woodlands Hospital, Baker Hughes, Exxon Mobil, and Entergy Texas. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0')};“Modera Six Pines will offer residents a place to live and play outside of the downtown sector while remaining in an environment near work, schools, and entertainment,” said Jeb Cox, senior managing director of development for Mill Creek Residential. . “We’re excited to expand our Texas portfolio to The Woodlands area, and we will aim to provide a top-of-market experience in the neighborhood.”