The launch of the Tilenga Development Project in East Africa, which was planned to take place on 22nd March, 2021, has been deferred to April 2021 due to the untimely demise of Dr. John Pombe Magufuli, the former President of the United Republic of Tanzania. located in the Buliisa and Nwoya districts in the Lake Albert, the Tilenga development project is operated by Total (56.6%), in partnership with CNOOC and UNOC. It includes the development of six fields and the drilling of around 400 wells from 31 locations. Production will be delivered through buried pipelines to a treatment plant built in Kasenyi, for the separation and treatment of the fluids (oil, water, gas. All of the water produced will be reinjected into the fields and the gas will be used to produce the energy needed for the treatment process. Surplus electricity will be exported to the pipeline and the Ugandan grid. One of the fields developed is located inside Murchison Falls Park. The others are located outside the Park, south of the Victoria Nile in sparsely populated rural areas and activities that are essentially agricultural. Also Read: Total suspends restart of works at Mozambique LNG project amid attacks The Tilenga Project, covers three PLs from CA-1 operated by TEPU and three PLs from LA-2 operated by TUOP. The PLs include; Jobi-Rii, Gunya, Ngiri, Kasamene-Wahrindi, Kigogole-Ngara and Nsoga. The project includes the following facilities: Development of a CPF with capacity to process 190,000 barrels of oil and 700,000 barrels of total liquid per day; drilling of over 426 wells (200 water injector wells, 196 oil producer wells, 2 polymer pilot wells and 28 reference wells) which are planned to be drilled on 31 well-pads; over 160 kilometres of flow-lines which will transport crude oil and water from the wells to the CPF; 95 km 24 inch feeder pipeline which will transport the processed crude oil from the CPF in Buliisa to the export hub and Refinery in Kabaale in Hoima District. Other supporting infrastructure include; Victoria Nile Crossing, Temporary and Permanent Operation Support Base camps and a Lake Water Abstraction Station.