The Togolese government is launching until May 17 this year, a procedure for recruiting a consultant to assist in the management of the PERECUT project (Programme d’Extension de Réseau Electrique dans les Centres Urbains du Togo). This comes barely a week after the French Development Agency (AFD), a public financial institution that works to fight poverty and promote sustainable development under the French Government, guaranteed to offer over US$ 137m for the implementation of the project in question. Also Read: US$ 137m mobilized for the implementation of PERECUT Project in Togo The consultant, according to the notice of expression of interest, will be responsible for assisting the Client (Togolese government) in putting together tender documents and in the procurement process particularly those relating to the acquisition of materials and the carrying out of work registered in the PERECUT. The consultant will also ensure the supervision and control of the execution of the proposed works. The project, according to the West African country’s ministry of energy and mining, is divided into three axes.  The first is the rehabilitation, reinforcement, and extension of the distribution network serving 53 municipalities situated across all five economic regions of Togo. The second one concerns additional support for grid access while the last relates to support and consolidating capacities. Among other works, sources mention the rehabilitation/reinforcement of a 48-km Medium Tension line and more than 145 substations, the construction of more than 226 new substations, and more than 1,164 low tension networks, as well as the extension of the network to supply 142 medium tension stations. The overall cost of implementing the PERECUT project, which will ultimately enable the electrification of 108,000 households, has been estimated at close to US$ 84M. The project is co-financed by the European Union (EU), a political and economic union, and the German state-owned KfW Development Bank.