The government of the Togolese Republic has mobilized over US$ 137m for the implementation of the PERECUT project in Togo (Programme d’Extension de Réseau Electrique dans les Centres Urbains du Togo). The funds in question were raised during President Faure Gnassingbé’s recent visit to France, from the French Development Agency (AFD), a public financial institution that works to fight poverty and promote sustainable development under the French Government. The project, according to the West African country’s ministry of energy and mining, is divided into three axes.  The first is the rehabilitation, reinforcement, and extension of the distribution network serving 53 municipalities situated across all five economic regions of Togo. The second one concerns additional support for grid access while the last relates to support and consolidating capacities. Also Read: Project for Reforms and Investments in Energy Sector in Togo launched Among other works, sources mention the rehabilitation/reinforcement of a 48-km Medium Tension line and more than 145 substations, the construction of more than 226 new substations, and more than 1,164 low tension networks, as well as the extension of the network to supply 142 medium tension stations. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};The overall cost of implementing the PERECUT project, which will ultimately enable the electrification of 108,000 households, has been estimated at close to US$ 84M. The project is co-financed by the European Union (EU), a political and economic union, and the German state-owned KfW Development Bank. During this visit to France, the Togolese president also endorsed the establishment of a public-private partnership with Sunna Design and Manufacturers in the public lighting sub-sector. The France-based company that designs and produces LED and solar lighting solutions, will install 50,000 lampposts in several Togolese municipalities as part of a US$ 48M project. All of these projects bring the West African country closer to its ambition to achieve universal access to electricity before or at the end of the next ten years.