eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));The Accra Sewerage Systems Ghana Limited (SSGL), an engineering, construction, and procurement specialist that aims to provide the Accra metropolis with decent and cost-effective disposal of effluent and fecal sludge is set to expand and upgrade Accra Wastewater Treatment Plant in Ghana, in a bid to treat more liquid waste within Accra and its environs. The project will be carried out by EMO Company, a French-based specialist in the design and manufacture of equipment for the treatment of sludge, wastewater, and drinking water sludge. Upon completion, the upgraded facility will have the capacity to treat approximately 3500 cubic meters of liquid waste per day from the current 2000. Furthermore, it will be able to “screen solid waste such as used sanitary napkins, nappies, etc. from the wastewater in and around Accra using state-of-the-art technology,” explains Florence Cobbold, SSGL’s Managing Director. Also Read: Accelerating construction of sanitation facilities in Keur Massar, Senegal As part of the contract, EMO will provide a capacity-building program for the technology installed at the anticipated Accra Wastewater Treatment Plant to facilitate the transfer of knowledge to the Ghanaians who will manage the rehabilitated plant. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));According to Dr. Joseph Siaw Agyepong, the Executive Chairman of Jospong Group of Companies (JGC), work on the Kumasi Liquid waste treatment plant is almost complete and it will soon serve the waste treatment needs of the people residing within the Ashanti region. He also revealed that construction works for similar facilities in the Western, Tema, and Tamale regions have begun and that the capacities to be built will help receive all manner of liquid wastes and prevent indiscriminate dumping of waste which is a health hazard. JGC is one of the most diversified holdings companies in Ghana operating in the Waste Management, ICT, and Banking as well as Automobile and Equipment sectors. It is also the mother company of SSGL.