eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_8',114,'0','0']));The Government of the Republic of Ghana through the ministry of Roads & Highways in a statement has announced that it has signed a contract for the design and construction of the Accra-Tema Motorway and extensions project, from the Tema Interchange through Apenkwa Interchange to Neoplan Junction. The contract was signed with, Mota-Engil- Engenharia E Constructao Africa S. A., a division of Mota-Engil, a Portuguese group in the sectors of civil construction, public works, port operations, waste, water, and logistics, following the approval of the Public Procurement Authority and the Central Tender Review Board. The reconstruction and expansion of the existing 19.5km motorway into a two-lane dual carriageway for the freeway and a three-lane dual carriageway for the urban highway are among the key scopes of the project. The freeway will remain concrete surfacing, whilst the urban highway will be in asphaltic concrete with paved shoulders. Also Read: Ghana commissions Kete Krachi – Dodiokope Road Project Other works include the reconstruction of the Tetteh Quarshie Interchange to Apenkwa Interchange (5.7km) into a six-lane dual carriageway with Asphaltic Concrete surfacing and reconstruction of Tesano Junction – Neoplan Junction (2.5km) into a three-lane dual carriageway in the asphaltic concrete surfacing. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));As part of the project, five new interchanges will also be constructed at Lashibi, Community 18 Junction, Teshie Link Junction, Dzorwulu Junction, and Neoplan Junction to facilitate traffic movement at the junctions. Remodeling of the Tetteh Quarshie Interchange to eliminate the perennial congestion, reconstruction of Apenkwa Interchange, and rehabilitation of Achimota Interchange are also a part of the project. The contractor will also provide streetlights, construct Toll plazas, and fourteen new pedestrian footbridges along the route to ensure the safe crossing of pedestrians, where necessary. The actual construction works according to the statement will commence immediately after the detailed design has been approved and the relocation of services is completed. The Ghana Highway Authority is the project implementing agency.