Emirates Steel, the leading integrated steel plant in the UAE, signed a Memorandum of Association (MoU) with Khalifa University of Science and Technology forming the formal framework according to which the parties will cooperate in areas of mutual interest. The MoU was signed by Engineer Saeed Ghumran Al Remeithi, Chief Executive Officer of Emirates Steel, and Dr Arif Sultan Al Hammadi, Executive Vice President of Khalifa University of Science and Technology, in the presence of senior officials from the two entities. The scope of this MoU includes implementing collaborative research projects; providing scientific and professional training and development programmes and offering technical consultations and student internships at Emirates Steel premises. Under the MoU, the parties will form a Scientific Committee to identify and agree on the potential sponsored research programmes related to the core business of Emirates Steel, mainly in slag utilization in agriculture or construction; recovery of CO2 from flue gases; rebar discoloration problem; and cyber security issues. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','0']));“Concluding this fundamental MoU with Khalifa University, the prominent academic institution, which is well-known for its specialized research environment, is a new step on our way to shape the future and find innovative solutions that boost the performance of the industrial sector by cooperating with such distinguished educational institutions. This collaboration in research projects reflects our substantial commitment to placing innovation at the heart of everything we do, ensuring that our company can grow and realize its full potential in this challenging business environment. This is aligned with our endeavors to instill a research culture across the organization, and engage young minds at an early stage so that they can dive into one of the core industries in the UAE where they can build their future career,” said Engineer Saeed Ghumran Al Remeithi, CEO of Emirates Steel. Commenting on the event, Dr Arif Sultan Al Hammadi, EVP of Khalifa University of Science and Technology stated: “As a research-intensive university, we are delighted to enter into this collaboration with Emirates Steel and support their specialized production facilities. With our research strength and expertise, we will be able to support the emergence of new technologies that will facilitate some of the operational areas to bring in production efficiency. We believe the MoU will not only lead to mutual benefits to both partners but will also raise the profile of the UAE as a leading hub for research in steel-related technologies.” eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_5',117,'0','0']));Emirates Steel has recently formed a Scientific Committee to organize and promote the R&D activities across the organization and boost collaborations that help Emirates Steel expand its innovation aspirations. About Emirates Steel Emirates Steel is a leading integrated steel manufacturer in the Middle East region, based in the UAE capital, Abu Dhabi. Through Senaat, Emirates Steel is part of ADQ, one of the region’s largest holding companies with a broad portfolio of major enterprises spanning key sectors of Abu Dhabi’s diversified economy. Established in 1998, Emirates Steel boasts leverages cutting-edge rolling mill technology, and supplies the domestic and international markets with high quality finished products including wire rods, rebars, heavy sections and sheet piles. Emirates Steel is the first steelmaker in the world to capture its CO2 emissions, with the possible exception of some North American manufacturers. The company plays an enabling role in building the UAE’s future and contributes to achieving the Abu Dhabi Economic Vision 2030 and UAE Centennial 2071 through its delivery of market-leading products to local industries and provision of career opportunities for talented UAE nationals.  