eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',114,'0','0']));1-Ninety New Cairo by Landmark Sabbour is a mix-use development presenting an unparalleled experience for business owners looking for a prime business location that can thrive their ventures as a result and a residential luxury haven. The project is located in southern 90th Street in an excellent location for investment in the heart of New Cairo, directly on the southern 90th Street and on the ring road from the Mohammed Naguib axis. It is located near a group of famous projects and high-end compounds for the largest real estate developers. 1-Ninety New Cairo is being built with the goal of offering state of the art offices, retail as well as hotel apartments along with amazing services and master plan design to allow an environment like no other in comparison. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));1-Ninety is one of the first branded residential neighborhoods in Egypt, a state of the art office complex designed for only the most prestigious organizations. The project has sprawling Green Park thriving with a selection of native flora. Spanning 82 acres and including an amazing variety of facilities among them, the world hotel brand W Marriott, which will manage two hotels. The state of the art commercial office complex is designed for distinguished tenants with productivity and dynamism in mind. Building lobbies feature a luxurious entrance lounge and a concierge-grade front desk service. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));The project has been developed using the latest spatial innovation and the complex buildings are energy-efficient and smart offering tenants and guests direct engagement. There are several amenities including a gym, emergency clinic, indoor and outdoor F&B options, an entertainment area, and a jogging track. Office buildings have been designed with key features like high-speed heavy-duty elevators, fibre-optic internet, and an electric car charging station, and certified fire protection. 1 NINETY mainly targets the most prestigious of enterprises with modern, stimulating work experiences. The project has an Urban Park designed with various luxurious features.  The park has a unique collection of native flora that complements the development’s aesthetic while working towards conserving the natural environment of Egypt. Key features include botanical and other specialized gardens and an amphitheater to host performing arts. The project will have ample retail space that will host some of the most luxurious brands in Egypt. The retail mall offers the 1-NINETY community an unparalleled variety of shopping destinations while introducing them to the next generation of casual and fine dining experiences. Complementing the mall is a 4-star business hotel perfect for community guests and visiting professionals with its full range of amenities and an ideal location at the entrance to New Cairo. The project has lavish 5-star hotels that have direct access to the Urban Oasis Park and Retail Mall via hanging footbridges. The hotels will offer guests with a unique stay with an expanding range of services and experiences on property. Visitors will enjoy thoughtful amenities and expert hospitality matched with the richly decorated rooms and signature suites. The residential neighborhood has lush green, native, landscape gardens, full amenities, and direct connection to the 5-Star Hotel and the Urban Oasis Park. The architecture reflects a local climate, with deep façade and operable shading. Multi-layered terraces with canopy shading offer a strong indoor-outdoor experience. Lafarge Egypt recently signed an agreement with LMS Construction to manage the supply & delivery of ready-mix concrete for the 1 Ninety project. Lafarge Egypt is a member of LafargeHolcim International Group while LMS Construction is one of the leading construction organizations in Egypt. In April 2020, Hill International, the global leader in managing construction risk was awarded a contract to provide project management services for the 1-Ninety project. In April 2020, Hill International was selected as Project Manager for the 1-Ninety New Cairo Egypt project. In January 2021, Lafarge Egypt signed a consortium agreement with LMS Construction to manage the supply & delivery of ready-mix concrete for the 1 Ninety project. Lafarge Egypt is a member of LafargeHolcim International Group while LMS Construction is one of the leading construction organizations in Egypt 