Streetlight Retrofit Project in Lagos, Nigeria is taking shape according to Eng. Olalere Odusote, the Lagos State Commissioner for Energy & Mineral Resources. “The State Government of Lagos has concluded arrangements to execute a Streetlight Infrastructure Agreement with LEDCo Limited for the retrofit of existing conventional High-Pressure Sodium (HPS) streetlight installations across the State to Smart Light Emitting Diode (“Smart LED”) lights for the Streetlight Retrofit Project,” said the Commissioner in a statement. He also noted that the project, which is a furtherance of the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda, is designed to leverage private sector partnerships to accelerate infrastructure interventions in Making Lagos State a 21st Century Economy. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));“One of the features of the LED lighting system is the use of significantly lower energy to produce the same amount of luminosity. In the pilot phase of the project, it was determined that LED lighting resulted in a reduction of up to 60% of the operations and maintenance costs of streetlight infrastructure,’’ explained the commissioner. Also Read: Phase 2 rehabilitation of third mainland bridge in Nigeria 22% complete eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));He further said that a smart LED streetlight system is one of the enabling technologies for a Smart City, pointing out that the intelligent nature of this street lighting system enables remote management of streetlight assets and ensures enhanced performance management. “As Lagos State evolves to a Smart City, the utilization of smart and energy-efficient streetlights is vital for improved government service delivery in areas of security of lives and property of Lagosians, as well as a reduction in CO2 emissions from reduced energy consumption of energy-efficient luminaires, while also improving socio-economic activities in the State by enabling a functional 24-hour economy,” he emphasized. The full implementation of the Streetlight Retrofit Project according to Odusote is expected to span six months with an estimated project completion timeline of June 2021. The project will be implemented under the close supervision and management of the Ministry of Energy & Mineral Resources, through the Lagos State Electricity Board. 