eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_6',114,'0','0']));A market leader in today’s construction trading industry in the Middle East and Africa, Sehnaoui Plant Group of Companies built its competencies and brand from a humble construction yard in Lebanon almost twenty five years ago. Their carefully selected and diverse range of products reflects the specific needs of the markets the company operates in. SP portfolio evolved to serve multi-tier market requirements in concrete ready mix, precast, aggregate washing, concrete recycling, crushing, road construction, and sub-infrastructure work. Speaking on the quality network of suppliers in Africa Michel Zovighian, Chairman and CEO affirms that, “We have been operating in Nigeria since 2001 and are performing after sales services for one major supplier in the ECOWAS countries since 2008. We promise our clients continuity and long term presence.” eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_7',115,'0','0']));Zovighian adds that their unique selling proposition (USP) that is: Performance and Reliability have been helping their business stand out from the competitors. After understanding the African market and their objective of satisfying clients in this continent. The company had to open a branch in Nigeria, SPNL (Sehnaoui Plant Nigeria Ltd) based in Lagos. These have been their cornerstone of their success whereby they have been winning several projects in Africa like: SPNL is LAFARGE Ready Mix preferred supplier of Putzmesiter pumps in Nigeria and Cameroun; supplied Dangote’s ongoing oil refinery project in Lekki with four high capacity ELKON batching plants; and supplied the Chaghoury Group with concrete batching plants, block factories, and pipe factory that they used to build EKO ATLANTIC. Working through a quality network of suppliers, who are highly regarded in their respective domains, Sehnaoui offers the best in blend of commercial application, technology, efficiency and business ethics. The firm represent and partner with prominent international suppliers from Europe and Asia, to offer their clients the latest technologies and applications in construction machinery and industrial plants. Working alongside our partners ensures a continuous commitment to our markets and clients. eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));The company strongly maintain providing customers with professional advice and effective support, through an experienced team of top-tier talent offering cost-effective solutions of machineries and plants of the latest generation. SP aims to grow by developing their positions in their existing markets and strategically penetrate new markets. They treat their clients and suppliers as long-term partners, and seek to conduct their business with utmost trust, integrity, and respect for one another, powered by a constructive energy and collective ambition. Zovighian urges those who want to purchase equipment to be keen on equipment productivity; generally refers to the time during which the machine is in operation performing productive work. The best way to increase productivity: Purchase performing equipment, Regular assessment of equipment integrity, Invest in training, Adopt best practices, last but not least Retire old and problematic equipment. Sehnaoui Plant Group of Companies is a market leader in the construction trading industry in the Middle East and Africa. In 2013, they were recognized as one of the Top 100 most impactful private companies in the Middle East. SP developed solutions to meet increasing regulatory demands for green building construction and higher specifications.