The construction of the 43 kilometers Obajana-Kabba road, which is Nigeria’s longest concrete road located in Kogi State in the central region (Middle-Belt) of the West African country is complete. This was announced by the project developer, Dangote Industries Limited (DIL), which is one of the most diversified business conglomerates in Africa whose activities encompass cement, sugar, salt, flour, poly-products, logistics, oil & gas, petrochemicals, fertilizer, and real estate. Olatunbosun Kalejaiye, the Project Director, said that he was excited that the project, which was implemented as part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility, is being delivered for use by Nigerians. Also Read: Third mainland bridge in Nigeria to be re-opened by 15th February On the other hand, Site Engineer Samuel Obosi assured that the dual carriageway will be durable and less susceptible to potholes and repairs like asphalt road, adding that it would also decrease the rate of road accidents in the country. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));Worried about the huge sum of money used in road repairs, President of the Dangote Group Aliko Dangote had mentioned earlier that plans were afoot to revolutionize Nigerian roads with concrete, stressing that resources used in road repairs and maintenance would be channeled to other more important needs of the nation. “We are going to be constructing concrete roads in the country so that anytime we build a road, we do not have to go back to repair it barely after the third raining season, but instead move on and use the resources to address other pressing needs of the republic,” said Mr. Dangote. The Dangote Group had earlier commissioned the 26 km Itori-Ibese Concrete Road. A statement from the Corporate Communications Department of the company said that “Concrete roads last longer than asphalt roads and do not have potholes. They do not require frequent maintenance as asphalt roads, and they save fuel for motorists as well as protect tires from wear and tear.” The statement said that it is part of the Group’s determination to support the government and Nigerians in order to grow the economy and facilitate ease of doing business.