eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_7',114,'0','0']));Mombasa Gates Bridge construction, one of Kenya’s most ambitious projects, is set to begin in June this year. The 1.4km bridge, whose feasibility study carried out by the Kenya National Highway Authority (KeNHA) is now complete, will connect Mombasa Island with the South Coast, replacing the ferry operations and the recently opened Liwatoni floating footbridge. The cable-stayed/powered bridge with four traffic lanes, will run from Lumumba Road and span the Likoni Channel at Mwenza Creek and connect to the A14 at Mtongwe. On the Mombasa Island side, the bridge structure will start on Lumumba Road near King’orani Prison and will rise to cross over the Mombasa Railway Station, then overhead Moi Avenue to the west of Canon Towers. Also Read: Liwatoni floating footbridge in Mombasa, Kenya over 92% complete The bridge will then crisscross Archbishop Makarios Rd to Ganjoni, turn right overhead Liwatoni, and cross Likoni Channel (with a height of 69 meters at mid-point to allow ships to pass underneath to access Kilindini port) to enter Likoni side at the ruins of the abandoned Sultan of Zanzibar Place near Puma Primary school. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_9',117,'0','0']));It will then proceed along the eastern shoreline of Mweza creek and start descending ultimately touching down near the Javi la Wageni Primary School from where it will proceeds as a 4 lane highway to cross Mtongwe Rd at the Post Office then join the Mombasa Southern Bypass at Ziwani on the boundary with Kwale County. Construction of the bridge is expected to take 36 months to complete with KeNHA as the project manager. The cost of the construction of the bridge is approximately US$ 749m. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani and the Japanese ambassador to Kenya, Ryoichi Horie, recently signed a loan agreement concerning the project. The concessionary loan is payable in 28 years with a grace period of 12 years.