eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_3',114,'0','0']));Bell and Associates Construction, a Brentwood-based company have won a contract to design and construct a new interchange in Nashville, Tennessee on I-65 and the extension of Buckner Road, between Buckner Lane and Lewisburg Pike in the eastern part of the city. The project is expected to be complete by May 2023. The project, estimated at US$54 million is aimed to provide Spring Hill and Thompson’s Station more direct access to Interstate 65 and allow future development of June Lake to fully unfold. Bell and Associates have partnered with Nashville-based engineering firm Neel-Schaffer for the Buckner Road interchange project. Tennessee Department of Transportation expects the design phase to be completed by fall and construction to start in the spring of 2022. Also Read: Samson Solar Energy Center in Texas receives financing for the first phase The interchange will be an important connection to the heart of Spring Hill, but also will open the door to development on the eastern side of the city. In August, Spring Hill approved the 775-acre mixed-use June Lake, to be located near the future interchange. June Lake will offer up to 3.9 million square feet of commercial office space, 1.3 million square feet of restaurant and retail space, 2,900 homes, and 400 hotel rooms. Nashville-based commercial real estate firm Southeast Venture is assisting the Alexander family in developing the property. The team expects to finish the project in late 2023, a few months after the future interchange is completed. eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_6',115,'0','0']));“This interchange will create a gateway into Spring Hill, result in major improvements to our local roadways and give us what’s needed to attract a wide range of new corporate office investment so that more of our residents can work where they live,” Spring Hill Mayor Rick Graham said in 2018. The project name honors Doris June Alexander, the matriarch of the Alexander family, with an 11-acre lake to be a prominent public amenity within the site.