eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));The Cubes, a 5.5 million square foot industrial park that is currently under development by Bird Dog Industrial in Glendale has an official start date for construction. The company has settled to begin construction on March 1, with the firm having already acquired the first 260-acre parcel of land out of the total 335- acres required. Acquisition of the second parcel is expected to close in the second quarter. It will be built near the intersection of Loop 303 and Northern Parkway. The Cubes industrial park project which is part of a joint venture between Phoenix’s Bird Dog Industrial and Chicago-based real estate firm CRG is the end result of a long period of watching and waiting for the right moment to arise. Also Read: Multi-purpose arena construction to begin in January, Arizona The first phase of the project includes the construction of a 1.2 million-square-foot speculative warehouse with 40-foot clear heights, 213 dock doors, 50-foot by 56-foot column spacing, and parking for 740 cars and 470 trailers. The Loop 303 corridor in Glendale and Goodyear has become the hottest area for large-scale industrial development. North of the Cubes at Glendale site is the Woolf Logistics Center, where both Red Bull and Mark Anthony Brewing, the maker of White Claw Hard Seltzer, have created production facilities. The site is northeast of where Canadian industrial real estate investment trust WPT Industrial REIT bought 108 acres and plans to build a 2.25-million-square-foot industrial park called Sarival Logistics Center. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));Mark Sonnenberg, the founder, and president of Bird Dog Industrial said that “Phoenix’s West Valley is a dynamic industrial market. In addition to logistics and e-commerce fulfillment centers, the West Valley is home to large-scale manufacturers, food and beverage processors, pharmaceutical and medical supply distributors and data centers. The Cubes at Glendale was conceived with this user diversity in mind with multiple opportunities for speculative development, build-to-suits and shovel-ready lot sales.”