eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));Lafarge Egypt, a member of LafargeHolcim International Group, has signed a consortium agreement with LMS Construction, one of the leading construction organizations in Egypt, to manage the supply & delivery of ready-mix concrete for the 1 Ninety project, a fully integrated mixed-use development located in New Cairo on South Teseen Road. Expected to be active by early January next year, the agreement is said to be the first of its kind in the North African country’s Construction & building sector. In this regard, Mr. Solomon Baumgartner Aviles, the CEO of Lafarge Egypt, expressed his appreciation for this new alliance, saying: “Building on Lafarge Egypt’s thrive for excellence, innovation, and sustainable development, we are pleased to ally with LMS Construction, to manage the supply & delivery of half a million cubic meters of concrete for one of the biggest real estate developers and one of the most prestigious landmark projects in New Cairo.” Also Read: Three contracts signed for Paragon New Capital project in Egypt The Lafarge Egypt CEO also mentioned that both companies are also currently discussing potential cooperation in other projects that would build on the common strategies and promote the sustainable development concept in the country’s construction market. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_2',117,'0','0']));On the other hand, Eng. Amr Al-Kayal, the Chief Operating Officer of LMS Construction, stressed that this great partnership is quite promising in supporting the execution of Egypt’s Urban Development plan. The Chief Operating Officer of LMS Construction said that their partnership with Lafarge Egypt coincided with the beginning of the construction works at One Ninety project being one of the most iconic landmarks and real estate projects in New Cairo. “Our objective in One Ninety project is to offer a new concept in the residential, commercial, and entertainment sectors within our community. With the same uniqueness that we pursued to establish the One Ninety project, we have chosen Lafarge Egypt as our building materials expert supported by its long history, unmatched experiences in Megaprojects, its commitment to sustainable construction globally and in Egypt,” explained Eng. Amr Al-Kayal.