The Difference Between High Frequency Welded Pipe and Straight Seam Welded Pipe. 1. High-frequency welded pipe: After the hot-rolled coil is formed by the forming machine, the skin effect and proximity effect of the high-frequency current are used to heat and melt the edge of the pipe blank, and pressure welding is performed under the action of the squeeze roller to achieve production. product. 2. Straight seam welded pipe: including double-sided submerged arc welded straight seam welded steel pipe (LSAW) and high frequency resistance welding (ERW). Submerged arc welded straight seam steel pipes are divided into UOE, RBE, JCOE steel pipes, etc. according to their different forming methods. . eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));1. High-frequency welded pipe: High-frequency resistance welded steel pipe has a different welding process from ordinary welded pipe. The weld is formed by melting the base material of the steel strip body, and its mechanical strength is better than that of general welded pipe. 2. Straight seam welded pipe: The material of longitudinal welded pipe mainly includes pipeline steel series such as Q195, Q215, Q345 and X42. Straight seam welded pipes are divided into two types: ordinary steel pipes and thickened steel pipes according to the specified wall thickness. The steel pipes are divided into two types with thread and without thread according to the pipe end form. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));1. High-frequency welded pipe: smooth appearance, high precision, low cost and small weld reinforcement, which is beneficial to the coating of 3PE anticorrosive coating. The welding methods of high frequency welded pipe and submerged arc welded pipe are significantly different. Since welding is completed instantly at high speed, it is much more difficult to ensure welding quality than submerged arc welding. 2. Straight seam welded pipe: The length of longitudinal welded pipe is mainly divided into fixed length and indefinite length. This is mainly based on customer requirements. The length is generally 6-14 meters. Large diameter longitudinally welded steel pipe may require two steel plates to be rolled. This also forms a double weld. Tips: ERW welded pipe is formed by rolling strip and welding the seam, with tighter dimensional tolerances and less weight. The weld seam is heat treated after welding that no untempered martensite remains, and the weld flash can be removed from both inner and outer surfaces. ASTM A53 ERW pipe is a typical carbon steel pipe. It is largely used to convey fluids at low / medium pressures such as oil, gas, steam, water, air and also for mechanical applications.