eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_4',114,'0','0']));The National Authority for Tunnels, a governmental authority under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport of Egypt, and Siemens Mobility have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) together with the local companies Orascom Construction S.A.E. and The Arab Contractors (Osman Ahmed Osman & Co.), to design, install and commission Egypt’s first ever high-speed rail transportation system. Additionally, Siemens Mobility will be providing maintenance services. The agreement comprises a rail system with a network of 1000km, with the first being a 460km high-speed line. The order value of this initial high-speed line is around US $3bn. The MoU was signed by Essam Waly, Chairman of Egypt’s National Authority for Tunnels, and Michael Peter, CEO Siemens Mobility, in Cairo. This was witnessed by His excellency, Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly, His excellency, Minister of Transport Egypt Kamel Al Wazir, as well as Siemens CEO Joe Kaeser and Siemens Deputy CEO Roland Busch. Also Read: Construction works at NAC’s CBD in Egypt almost complete According to Joe Kaeser, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG, by building a high efficiency rail system for the country, the company will support the Egyptian people with affordable, clean and reliable transportation. “We are honored and proud to expand our trustful partnership with Egypt. After the highly successful energy Mega project, we are now keen to repeat this visionary spirit in the mobility sector together with our partners,” he added. eval(ez_write_tag([[336,280],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));The first 460km long high-speed rail system will connect the vastly developing cities of El-Alamein on the Mediterranean Sea to Ain Sokhna on the Red Sea, while also passing through the New Administrative Capital. The line will also be operable for freight transport purposes which will further foster economic growth in the region.