eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_7',114,'0','0']));Zuva Petroleum announced an ambitious multi-million-dollar solar project that will see the energy giant install 180 solar power plants across its service stations, Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) sites and Depots in Zimbabwe by the end of 2021. According to Mr. Gumbo the CEO of Zuva Petroleum After project completion Zuva plans to channel 30% of the power generated from the solar plants to the national power grid through a net metering system to support the National Agenda in Sustainable Development. “Our investment in solar is part of a long term strategy on renewable and sustainable energy aimed at reducing our carbon footprint through lowering carbon dioxide emissions and ensuring uninterrupted energy delivery at our service stations and LPG installations nationwide,” he said. Also Read: South Africa: Construction of Greefspan II solar power plant complete He further added that, having identified the energy poverty crisis in the nation, the company launched the first Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) installations in 2015 starting with Retail sites. “LPG is a clean-burning fuel because of its low emission profile of GHGs (Green House Gases), it emits virtually no black carbon and does not spill. Its use improves air quality and protects the environment, making it an extremely efficient energy source.  It, therefore, plays a leading role as a bridging fuel towards a truly sustainable global energy solution. Expanding household use of LPG plays a pivotal role in eradicating energy poverty and brings with it, huge health and environmental benefits. Since the initial launch in 2015, we have expanded the project to independent Reseller sites in high density and rural settlements as we seek to get closer to the market and address the energy crisis in the country. To date, we have more than 100 LPG installations with representation in all the provinces across Zimbabwe, and we are still growing,” he affirmed. 