eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_8',114,'0','0']));eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_9',114,'0','1']));Painting walls can be a challenging task especially if you don’t have the necessary skills. However, painting is one of the easiest ways to give your home a new look. A new painting leaves your home look new and fresh. As opposed to other home improvement approaches, painting is a cheap way to transform your house into something a lot more attractive. To get the best results, below are factors to consider before painting your walls; Painting is much easier when you are working on a clean surface. Start by clearing the room as much as possible to create enough room for movement when painting. When painting in the living room, move large furniture pieces to the center and cover them up with old sheets or drop cloths. It is also important to wipe the wall to remove buildup on the walls of dirt, dust, and oils from your hands. All these need to be removed before painting to allow the paint to adhere to the walls. Any nail holes or cracks on the wall should be filled. When preparing the room, move all the furniture/cover it, and fill in nail holes. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));Before the paint is applied to the wall, it is sometimes hard to determine how the color will be on the wall. In addition, it is hard to determine how the color will be in the light. It is therefore a good idea to get a sample and try it out before applying the actual paint. All the paint to dry, observing its color in both daytime and night. This will give you a true idea of what the color will look like on your walls. If you are unsure of the color, purchase a few samples, and do the same. This will help you to pinpoint the right colors you need. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));Many people are color-sensitive. Trying different colors allows you to create a specific feeling in the room. For example, you can use dark colors to add depth and texture to the space. This is especially important if you are painting a large room with high ceilings. In a small room with no natural lighting, brighter, lighter colors can be used to open up the space and make it feel much larger. In addition to color, the right choice of finish also matters a lot. You can use high gloss paint finishes which are durable and easier to clean. Using a flat paint finish can help hide any imperfection in the wall painting or finishing. However, flat paint is more susceptible to damage. In most instances, an eggshell finish is the best option. After painting, you may find that there are still more improvements that need to be done. The good thing is that paint is not very expensive and can easily be changed in the event that the initial source did not please you. Have a good mixture of colors on different walls to determine the best option. Running out of paint in the course of painting can be a big frustration. In addition, having too much paint may leave you with nowhere to take it especially if you are just doing some home improvements. This means you need careful examination of the surface to be painted and the amount of paint needed. There are a few factors that need to be considered when deciding the right amount of paint needed. These include the square footage of the area to be painted.