eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',114,'0','0']));Brooklyn Bedding, a bedding manufacturer and retailer is investing over US$72 million to grow its American manufacturing footprint with a new 648,165 square foot factory to be constructed on nearly 43 acres in Arizona. The new factory, expected to be opened at the end of the year will triple the company’s manufacturing capacity and merge Brooklyn Bedding’s current factory and warehouse located in Phoenix. The factory will also be the company’s headquarters and house its manufacturing which will allow the company to be nearly completely vertically integrated. Once completed, the company has stated that it will add up to 150 employees over the next two years. Brooklyn Bedding currently employs more than 250 in the Phoenix area. Also Read: Bird Dog to develop The Cubes Industrial Park, Arizona This expansion shows just how much the company is dedicated to growth. In 2018, Brooklyn Bedding signed a lease to take over a 150,000 square-foot space, just south of its current 145,000 square-foot, state-of-the-art factory at 4455 West Camelback Road in Phoenix; a move that allowed Brooklyn Bedding to streamline its manufacturing process, resulting in twice as many mattresses produced daily with more inventory on hand for immediate shipment. The company has since added several key wholesale accounts while launching a number of highly popular, niche sleep solutions under its private label umbrella. eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));John Merwin, owner, and CEO said ” Brooklyn Bedding has come a long way from the early days of selling overstock mattresses to now be in a position to triple mattress production. Over the years, I’ve been asked to define our journey as an American-made brand. While I was trying to figure out what I should be doing with my life, I was building stuff and doing what I loved. I finally woke up to the fact that that’s a success,” he said, adding, “I try not to lose sight of the fact that I’m building mattresses for people who are waking up to their own potential every day, who are working and dreaming, too.”