eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_6',114,'0','0']));New Administrative Capital (NAC’s) electrical power plant is the largest of its kind in the world. According to Egypt’s Minister of Electricity and Renewable Energy Mohamed Shaker the power plant, which was established only 2 and a half years ago, is cooled by air. It adds to Egypt’s aspiration to export renewable energy to Europe through modern networks. In a statement before the House of Representatives, the minister said that one power plant takes six years to construct according to the system in force. He indicated that his ministry follows a scientific method of operation and maintenance, which leads to an increase in capacity and production, as well as achieving an adequate surplus and reserve. “Egypt faced a major crisis in its electricity sector in 2014, but we implemented several projects to improve service. As part of this, three large stations were built in collaboration with Siemens, providing a total of 14,000 MWs in energy,” he said. Also Read: Museum of Egyptian Capitals at NAC undergoing final touches ahead of commissioning The minister further added that Egypt is currently working to establish centres to control the electrical network with investments of US $345.3m, which come in addition to a global control centre at the NAC. He said that the voltage network had a capacity of 500kW, but has been increased four-fold to 54,000 kW. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));“My ministry’s cooperation with the Ministry of Environment to save on the special fuel used for energy production, which has reduced emissions by 20%. As part of this, equipment was developed to avoid any problems,” said the minister. He also pointed out that there will be a link with Jordan, Cyprus and Sudan, and that consultations are continuing in this context, noting the country’s ambition to export renewable energy to Europe through modern networks.