eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_4',114,'0','0']));eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_5',114,'0','1']));Linc Housing, a nonprofit developer and manager of affordable and supportive housing and apartments throughout California has begun construction of The Nook; a 27-unit apartment community in South Whittier, Los Angeles County. The company has worked hand-in-hand with the County of Los Angeles to make plans for a vibrant supportive housing community serving transition-age youth, 18 to 24 years old, in need of stable housing. The new building will address the demand for additional affordable housing in the neighborhood whilst giving new life and energy to an underutilized former library site. Jovenes, a nonprofit dedicated to ending the cycle of homelessness for young adults, will provide intensive case management for the residents. Also Read: Douglaston Development closes deal for senior housing, New York The new community, located at 14433 Leffingwell Road in South Whittier, will have 26 one-bedroom homes and one two-bedroom manager’s unit. The modern building design blends well into the community. The complex will feature a computer lab, community room, patio, second-floor roof deck, and a community kitchen. These spaces will be conducive to group educational experiences and training. As is its usual practice, Linc will incorporate sustainable construction and design features. Energy- and water-efficient measures not only help the environment but also decrease residents’ future utility costs, freeing up income for other necessities. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','0']));Funding for the development comes from a variety of sources including construction and permanent loans from Capital One, and US$3.9 million from the Los Angeles County Development Authority (No Place Like Home funds). The County of Los Angeles provided a permit fee waiver and ground lease for the site. The Los Angeles County Department of Health Services will provide funding for intensive case management services. The California Endowment and LISC Los Angeles provided predevelopment support. “We believe that homelessness should never limit a young persons’ dreams or goals,” said Andrea Marchetti, executive director, Jovenes.