The state of California has announced that they will need to postpone the construction deadline for the high-speed rail project by asking the Biden administration for a one-year extension on completing construction on a section of track in the Central Valley. The state now expects to complete construction on a 119-mile segment of track from Bakersfield to Madera in the Central Valley by 2023. A portion of the funds is tied to meeting a federal 2022 deadline, prompting the request for an extension. The budget for that segment of track is expected to jump from US$12.4 to US$13.8 billion according to Brian Kelly, the project’s chief executive officer. Also Read: California High Speed Rail (CHSR) project timeline and all you need to know. The pandemic caused several setbacks for the project among them being: a delay in procuring rights of way due to limited hours at courts, the need to quarantine workers if they were exposed to coronavirus, a delay in signing track and systems contracts, and the loss of roughly US$288 million in revenue expected from the state’s cap-and-trade program designed to reduce carbon emissions. Construction costs for the Central Valley segment will increase by US$330 million and officials are budgeting an extra US$1 billion in contingency money, bringing the total cost to US$13.8 billion. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));Despite those hurdles, construction has continued, in total putting 5,200 people to work aside from the 244 of the authority’s workers who had to undergo quarantine. In the coming year, rail officials expect to complete 22 miles of track through Kern County, win environmental clearance for segments in Los Angeles County, and award a track and systems contract. The High-Speed Rail Authority expects to have started construction on 106 miles of track by the end of the year, though it won’t be completed until 2023 according to Brian Kelly.  The state also hopes the Biden administration will give back nearly US$1 billion in grant money canceled by former President Donald Trump’s administration.