Legoland New York is scheduled to open its gates this year. The 150-acre theme park is the first major theme park to open in the area in over 40 years. Construction is still ongoing on the park’s final touches as it nears competition for its 2021 grand opening. When it opens, it will be the largest Legoland Park ever developed by Merlin Entertainment. Located in Goshen, New York, it will be home to seven-themed lands and more than 50 rides, shows, and attractions for families with children ages 2 through 12, as well as a 250-room Legoland Hotel. Also Read: Construction on State Route 7 and Collar City Bridge complete, New York The theme park is preparing for its grand opening after Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s announcement that amusement parks in New York can open this spring. Legoland New York called the governor’s announcement a monumental win for theme parks in the state. The New York Governor stated that the state’s indoor family entertainment centers and outdoor amusement parks can open with safety guidelines and COVID-19 related restrictions. It’s even more significant as Legoland plans to open to guests for the first time this year. Governor Cuomo said outdoor amusement parks can reopen starting on April 9. The parks will be allowed to operate at 33% capacity. Face coverings, social distancing, and cleaning and disinfecting will also be required at outdoor parks. Tickets for amusement parks must be sold in advance, with staggered entry and exit to control the crowds. “We are thrilled with Gov. Cuomo’s announcement for the reopening of family attractions, including outdoor theme parks,” said the divisional director of Legoland New York Resort, Stephanie Johnson. “This means Legoland New York Resort will be able to celebrate its grand opening this season as planned, and we look forward to sharing more details soon.” They are awaiting further guidance from the state on specific safety and operating procedures, which the theme park will follow alongside all federal and local health and safety guidelines, Johnson said.