The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) has moved a proposal forward to the Biden Administration for a 350MW Crimson solar farm, a project proposed on public lands near Blythe, California. As currently proposed, the Crimson solar farm project represents an investment of US$550 million and would support up to 650 temporary construction jobs, 10 permanent jobs, and 40 temporary jobs in operations and maintenance over its 30-year expected lifetime. If approved, the Crimson solar project is expected to generate enough electricity to power 87,500 homes. Sonoran West Solar Holdings LLC, a subsidiary of Canadian Solar unit Recurrent Energy, would build and operate the project on up to 2,500 acres of public land. Also Read: The Slate Project a 300MW solar and 561MW storage facility begins in California The Bureau of Land Management, part of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), released the final environmental impact statement (FEIS) and an amendment to the California Desert Conservation Area Land Use Plan for the project. Publication of these documents initiated a 30-day protest period and a 60-day consistency review by the California governor. The Bureau of Land Management said it will then work to resolve any protests and issue a record of decision. “Solar energy has the potential to help our nation combat climate change, improve resilience through reliable power, and spur economic development to create good-paying jobs,” said BLM California State Director Karen Mouritsen. “We will continue to support responsible development of clean energy projects as part of our mission to sustainably manage public lands in California for a variety of uses.” President Biden issued an Executive Order on January 27, 2021, that called for the Interior Department to identify steps to accelerate responsible development of renewable energy on public lands and waters. The Interior Department has initiated a review of processes and procedures to date as it re-invests in a rigorous renewable energy program.