Construction at the VA clinic in Texarkana where a new one-level is being added to the current facility is more than 50% completed. So far, the foundation is set and the roof is attached. Now, construction workers are in the process of putting up walls and electrical outlets. The new VA clinic is 24,000 square feet, which is twice the space as its current facility. Staff at the current clinic treats about 22,000 veterans every year. With the new facility, Jordan believes they’ll be able to complete 45,000 to 50,000 appointments in a year. Planning for the project started about 10 years ago. The cost to build the new clinic is US$5 million. Also Read: Samson Solar Energy Center in Texas receives financing for first phase The new Texarkana Community Based Outreach Center, located in the 5700 block of Summerhill Road has more space and added services to allow staff to expand health care to even more veterans in the four states area. The Texarkana CBOC is operated by the Shreveport VA Medical Center. The current clinic in Texarkana, Arkansas opened in 2003. Administrative officer Charles Jordan said they serve about 5,000 veterans in the Texarkana area. But he believes that number will increase by the time the new facility opens. The ML James Construction Company started work in mid-June. After a rainy start, company president Mark James said the new clinic is back on track to be completed next fall. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));“Right now, we’re receiving veterans as far out as De Queen, Arkladephia, and as far over as Sulphur Springs. We’ll have a larger facility to address more veterans and their needs. In addition to that, we’ll be able to offer new services in the form of physical therapy and counseling in mental health service.” Says Charles Jordan. “By allowing us to modernize the building we’ll definitely be able to accommodate new veterans and younger veterans. We see many of them leaving their military services and return home.”