The construction industry like other departments faces similar customer relationship management challenges and CRM In the Construction Industry is becoming a critical component. This is because they equally need efficient means of collecting, analysing, and storing client-related data for improved customer satisfaction. CRM for construction offers the best solution for contractors to improve their services and achieve anticipated results within definite timelines. But what does CRM stand for in technology? It is a customer relationship management platform. While on the construction site, CRM provides the right information just when you need it. Managers, therefore, find it much easier to access and oversee key aspects of a construction site such as allocating resources, materials delivery, task delegation, and maintaining safety and quality. Cloud-based CRM from Creatio, therefore, helps the industry in several ways on-site and off-site for better employee management, workplace management, and customer relationship management. In this article, we focus the discussion on the role of CRM in the construction industry. Construction is a tender-based marketplace. However, each tender involves many contacts and sometimes liaison people. Some of these contacts may be designers, architects, planners, other contractors among many other key stakeholders in the construction industry. It is very crucial to wear a global lens when dealing with the various contacts and interactions to be in a position to win the construction tenders. A construction CRM centralizes all the related tender data. This data is then made available to all the teams involved or decision-makers that help improve the experience of clients with contractors. With the right information for instance on pricing, tender process, and construction site management, resources can be properly managed, time saved and accidents reduced at the workplace. Every contractor needs a platform to effectively monitor the position of tenders. This is crucial as it affects the decision-making process and is more likely to determine the likelihood of hiring more workers, the kind of skills needed, among many other planning needs. CRM for the construction industry, therefore, has a dedicated dashboard for continuous monitoring of tender positions from initiation to acceptance. CRM makes it easier for teams to gain access to information, whether on-site or remotely. Besides, construction staff such as sales reps who are constantly traveling or attending meetings can access crucial information even from their smartphones without having to travel back to the site. Construction companies want to cut costs too. These may be costs of materials and the costs of labor. Therefore, site managers quickly adopt solutions that help them minimize operational costs. CRM helps in cost monitoring and the reports given on the dashboards can be accessed and used by the managers to make decisions on how to adjust costs and increase the overall cost-efficiency of the project. CRM for construction integrates with other third-party software to provide a unified approach to customer analysis. Whether this client inquires, places an order, or makes a payment, CRM stores this information and gives you a rounded customer view especially for more personalized service. CRM for construction can automate management processes of both costs and time. The result is reduced workers’ workloads and increased efficiency and productivity. Besides, when paperwork is automated, little resources and time is spent completing tasks. Automated business processes also reduce the losses attributed to human error. As a result, the efficiency of workflows increases. CRM benefits the construction industry by collecting information on inquiries from clients and prospects. The inquiries are then picked by customer representatives who then respond with personalized phone calls or even emails. The direct and long-term advantage of this is the referrals construction managers get for offering good customer relations. All these are better management by cloud-based CRM for the construction industry.      