eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_1',114,'0','0']));The Burlington International Airport has received a federal grant for the US$14.5 million Terminal Expansion Project. The project is a 26,240 square-foot expansion that includes the consolidation of security checkpoints for greater efficiency and a more direct route between concourses. The Mayor of Burlington, Miro Weinberger, said the airport is a critical institution for Northwestern Vermont and Burlington. The mayor announced that with the help of Vermont’s Senator Patrick Leahy a grant from the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program has been secured to complete the project. “We’re really excited to be making this announcement and it would not be possible to make it were we not successful with the leadership of Senator Patrick Leahy in securing a US$14.5 million federal grant for this work. This was initially something that it was not at all clear would be funded. In fact, it was given little chance of funding initially. But the Senator went to work on this and like so many other times he found a way.” said the mayor. Groundbreaking is scheduled for July and construction is expected to take about a year and a half. Also Read: San Diego County Regional Airport Authority in US awards US $16m airport project eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));This announcement of a substantial and meaningful grant for the Burlington Airport expansion really can’t be overstated in its importance to our airport as one of the region’s strongest economic assets. The priorities of this significant improvement grant are the efficiency, the ease of use for our passengers with one-stop TSA, combined with systems that reduce fossil fuel use will continue to keep the Burlington International Airport at the cutting edge of modern innovative technology.” said Karen Paul, a representative of the Burlington City Council. Kyle Clark, the founder of BETA, a company that operates at the airport developing electric-powered aircraft said The airport and the terminal is the first impression that a recruit has when they come with their family and the last impression when they leave. It defines in some reflects the artwork, the people that greet you, the ambiance of the terminal, the culture of the town. And to have a forward-leaning thoughtful progressive terminal that’s fluid efficient and enjoyable to traverse through is again the first and last impression.”