eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_2',114,'0','0']));Construction of Kibuli Muslim Tower in Uganda has begun. The titular head of the Muslim community in Uganda, Prince Kassim Nakibinge, has flagged off the project for the Uganda Muslim Education Association (Umea). Vcon Construction Uganda Limited and Ambitious Construction Limited will construct the US $10.4m tower in a joint venture. The building will have both residential houses and a commercial complex. According to Prince Kassim Nakibinge, the project is funded by Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) from Saudi Arabia under the supervision of Dolsar Limited, the Turkish consultant company. The titular head signed the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the contractors Vcon Construction Uganda Limited and Ambitious Construction Limited at his residence in Kibuli. Also Read: Construction of Nigeria’s (DPR) new headquarters building begins “We are very glad that we have kicked off the first phase of the construction. We expect the best from the awarded companies because they have shown us that they have ability to provide us with the best construction project,” he said. He further added that the tower will contribute to development of the Muslim community and change the capital city’s skyline. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_1',117,'0','0']));Mr Rajiv Ruparelia, from Vcon Construction Uganda, said they are ready to deliver the project within the stipulated time. “The building is going to be assembled on five acres of land and the project will be implemented in multiple phases. It will take one year to construct,” he said. He further added that the project is not going to be for Kibuli Muslims only but also for the betterment of the country in terms of development. “We are ready to illustrate our competence to deliver a high quality standard development at Kibuli hill because the Muslim leaders from Kibuli have entrusted us,” he said.