eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_3',114,'0','0']));The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), an agency set up for the monitoring and maintenance of all federal roads in Nigeria, has announced that the ongoing rehabilitation works of a section of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway are currently 88 percent complete. According to Mr. Rufus Onimisi, FERMA South West 2 Zonal Coordinator, the project contractors (Wizchino Engineering Ltd) are fast-tracking the implementation of the project which spans from Igboelerin to Agbara. “The project contractors are working day and night in order to complete the 24 kilometers project ahead of schedule, which was postponed to April this year from November last year following the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic,” explained the FERMA South West 2 Zonal Coordinator. Also Read: Escravos Seaport Complex to be developed by Port of Antwerp & MMCC “To date, we have done the drainage works, kerb works, access culverts, and work on the main carriageway. This comprises of scarification, stone base, binder and wearing course as well as desilting works and desilting of silted drainages” says Mr. Onimisi. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_1',117,'0','0']));“Drainage works done so far is about 1.6 kilometers. The portion we are working on is 12 kilometers on each lane, so for the two carriageways, that’s a total of 24 kilometers.  The asphalting works we have done so far on the other hand is about 11 kilometers on each lane, so basically we have completed asphalting a total of 22 kilometers out of the entire 24 kilometers of the road.” “Considering the rate at which the rehabilitation works are being carried out, I am certain that by the end of March we should be completely done with the project,” elaborated FERMA South West 2 Zonal Coordinator. The Lagos-Badagry Expressway, a major gateway connecting Nigeria and neighboring West African countries, was conceptualized back in 2009 by the Babatunde Fashola administration in Lagos State to ease traffic in the region and upgrade the infrastructure.