Construction has officially begun on the new Alamar Park, a 40- acre community park east of El Mirage Road, north of Broadway Road in Avondale, Arizona. The park will include baseball/softball and multi-use fields, tennis and pickleball courts, playgrounds, lake, splash pad, amphitheater, dog park, and picnic sites for residents of Avondale to enjoy. The completion date has been projected for Spring of 2022. The Alamar community park is the result of a partnership agreement between the developer Brookfield Lakin and the City of Avondale. Valley Rain was selected as the CMAR for the project using a public qualification-based selection process. The park will be the third large scale community park in Avondale. Brookfield Lakin is contributing US$6.9M towards the design and construction of the park, with an additional US$2.7M for the donation of 40 acres of land and the adjacent half-street infrastructure for a total contribution of US$9.6M; coupled with the City of Avondale’s US$8.1M construction contribution provides investment in a US$17.7M project.  The park is centered around a “great lawn” and will include an amphitheater, 2.4-acre fishing, and irrigation lake, pathways, playgrounds, a splash pad, 2 restroom buildings, 8 ramadas, baseball facilities, sports courts, multi-use field, adult fitness court by National Fitness Campaign, a dog park, and maintenance facilities. Also Read: Bird Dog to develop The Cubes Industrial Park, Arizona eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));Roger Theis, Director of Development, Brookfield Residential Arizona stated, “Brookfield Residential is excited for the ground-breaking and start of construction on Alamar Park. We are seeing the vision of over one-and-a-half years of collaboration with the City of Avondale begin to transform into the built environment. Alamar Park and its 40 acres of amenities will be a central hub of connection for the residents of Alamar as well as the south Avondale community.” The landscape will reflect the natural beauty of the area and the rich history of the Alamar property.