The Governor of New York, Andrew M. Cuomo has announced 40 new solar and storage programs that will generate renewable energy while bringing reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy to surrounding communities. The 40 projects will help meet a newly announced New York Power Authority 2025 community solar target that sets a goal of 75 MW of renewable capacity that includes 15 MW of paired battery storage, enough energy to offset the emissions of 2,572 cars. These projects are expected to stimulate more than US$135 million in direct, private investments toward their development, construction, and operation, and create more than 1,250 short and long-term jobs. Also Read: New York to construct US$17 Mn housing development for Seniors The projects build on New York’s unprecedented ramp-up of clean energy including over US$4 billion invested in 91 large-scale renewable projects across the state, the creation of more than 150,000 jobs in New York’s clean energy sector, a commitment to developing 9,000 megawatts of offshore wind by 2035, and 1,800 percent growth in the distributed solar sector since 2011. New York has been ranked by Wood Mackenzie as first in the nation for completed community solar projects for the first three quarters of 2020 and since 2011, solar in New York State has grown nearly 1,800 percent, leveraged US$5 billion in private investments, and decreased the cost of solar by 68 percent. There are more than 12,000 people engaged in solar jobs across New York. “New York has the strongest community solar market in the nation, and we are continuing to prioritize the development of renewable sources that will transform the energy industry, protect the environment, and lower energy costs for New York families and businesses,” the Governor stated. “Partnering with local governments and state agencies for community projects will further solar and storage deployment, while creating new jobs all across the state. By working together, we will advance New York’s nation-leading commitment to fight climate change and generate more clean, affordable energy to our electric grid.”