eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));A section of the California high-speed train through the San Joaquin Valley has stumbled upon yet another troubling and costly hurdle in the project after a contractor gave assurances that it could be constructed at a much cheaper price with radical design changes. The segment runs across rivers, migratory paths for endangered species, and an ancient lake bed through the length of Kings County, a fertile agricultural belt south of Fresno. In 2014, when the California High-Speed Rail Authority awarded the contract, it went with the lowest bidder, Dragados, a Spanish company that promised US$300 million in cost savings by altering the design that the authority had proposed to regulators. Seven years later, these changes have been largely abandoned and have contributed to more than US$800 million in cost overruns on the Kings County section. Also Read: California high-speed rail construction deadline postponed further In addition, the California High-Speed Rail Authority awarded the contract without first completing a scientific assessment of how sinking land in the area; a result of decades of excessive groundwater pumping, could affect the rail route. The state is currently paying tens of millions of dollars to raise track embankments over 21 miles. Today, Dragados has not started construction on about half of its bridges and viaducts, four years after the original deadline of 2017, and it had completed less than 50% of its planned work by December, according to rail authority progress reports. The rail authority bears a share of responsibility, having failed to deliver 278 of 998 parcel land purchases needed for construction. eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','1'])); .medrectangle-4-multi-115{border:none !important;display:block !important;float:none;line-height:0px;margin-bottom:15px !important;margin-left:0px !important;margin-right:0px !important;margin-top:15px !important;min-height:250px;min-width:250px;text-align:center !important;}California’s high-speed rail endeavor still has support from Governor Gavin Newsom and other state leaders, who hope it will ultimately relieve congested airports, spur economic development in the Central Valley and provide a cleaner alternative for linking the Bay Area, the Central Valley, and Southern California. But with continued cost increases and delays, the project potentially could run out of money before an initial 171-mile line from Merced to Bakersfield is completed. The Dragados segment, which is part of that initial line, is just part of the problem.