eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-3','ezslot_0',114,'0','0']));The construction of all three stations of Sound Transit‘s Northgate Link Extension is now substantially complete, a major milestone in progress toward the start of revenue service later this year. The elevated station at Northgate was the last to see construction substantially completed. Construction at the UDistrict station was largely completed in the summer of 2020, and construction of the Roosevelt Station was completed earlier in 2020. Light rail test trains began operating on the new elevated light rail tracks in January this year to test the overhead electrical power system throughout the Northgate line. Testing has been scheduled to continue for several months. Also Read: Miami-Orlando rail line, Brightline, reaches half mark in construction Construction work on the Northgate Link Extension project is now focused on completing systems work, which includes electrical and communications systems. When completed, the 7-kilometer regional light rail extension will offer riders reliable, traffic-free travel between Northgate and downtown Seattle in just 14 minutes. Trains traveling in 5.6-kilometer twin tunnels north to and from the University of Washington Station at Husky Stadium will stop at underground stations in the U District and Roosevelt neighborhoods, exit the tunnels at First Avenue Northeast and Northeast 95th, and transition to a 0.8-mile elevated guideway to reach the station. Sound Transit is simultaneously working to extend light rail north, south, east, and west. Northgate Link will be followed in 2023 by the opening of service to Mercer Island, Bellevue, and Redmond’s Overlake community. eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_1',115,'0','0']));eval(ez_write_tag([[250,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_2',115,'0','1']));Sound Transit CEO Peter Rogoff said, “this achievement is remarkable given the construction challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Thanks to the commitment and professionalism of our construction team, our contractors, and their skilled and dedicated workforce, we remain on budget and on schedule to open this extension in September.” “Our city of the future will have fewer cars, more transit, and less carbon pollution,” said Seattle Mayor and Sound Transit Board Member Jenny Durkan.