Holland Construction Services, a General contractor, has begun the next phase of construction of a 41,000 square-foot expansion at the MidAmerica St.Louis Airport; a US$30 million expansion program that will include a new security screening area, two additional boarding bridges, a service animal relief area, family restrooms, a nursing room, an expanded departure lounge, additional room for concessions and renovations to accommodate people with disabilities. HOK is the designer on the project. The four-phase terminal expansion of MidAmerica Airport began in 2020 after it received funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation through the Federal Aviation Administration’s Airport Improvement Program. Overall, the Metro East airport is seeking to expand its 53,000-square-foot terminal to nearly 100,000 square feet, as well as improvements to infrastructure and safety. Also Read: Pittsburgh International Airport to resume terminal modernization The second phase will be complete within a year with a cost of about US$13 million of the $30 million total. Additional work planned includes improvements to the original terminal itself, such as electrical work and other interior updates. The entire project is expected to be completed by late 2023, officials said. “The expansion is monumental for the airport, especially when you consider how far it has come over 20 years,” Director Bryan Johnson of MidAmerica St. Louis Airport said in a statement. “This project will allow travelers to have a smoother, more comfortable, and convenient experience traveling through our airport, and we’re excited to see its completion.” The expansion follows a 376% rise in passenger growth from 2015 to 2019 to more than 300,000 total passengers, officials said. The airport could also allow for the landing of Boeing planes, which could expand its operations with a 35-acre tract south of the facility’s primary runways. Johnson said last month that the St. Clair County-owned airport and Boeing entered a pre-development lease agreement and are currently undergoing due diligence.