Leading East African planning, design, architecture and engineering team FBW Group has been appointed to masterplan the expansion of the University of Global Health Equity (UGHE) in Rwanda. The UGHE development in the Burera district of the country will build on the work of the university in producing much-needed, high-quality health professionals. And it is latest in a series of large-scale education projects FBW, which is celebrating a quarter of a century of operations in East Africa, has been involved in across the region. eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));The first phase of the 250-acre Butaro campus was opened by the Partners In Health organisation in 2019. Located 80 miles north of Rwanda’s capital Kigali, and embedded in a rural primary health care system, the design and location offer students diverse educational opportunities in clinical and delivery settings. eval(ez_write_tag([[580,400],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_4',117,'0','0']));The medical and public health school aims to cater for 370 students by 2025 and is planning to introduce several new programmes, including nursing and midwifery. To meet that expansion, the masterplan being drawn up by the FBW team will look to deliver new classrooms, offices, labs, student services and clinical facilities. Recreational facilities, including sports grounds, and spaces for convention and events are part of the overall mix. Phase two of the campus will also include student dorms as well as apartments and living quarters for university staff. FBW projects director Nigel Tilling said: “The university is already playing a key role in transforming health care delivery in the region and beyond. “It is now looking at the next stage of its growth as it looks to meet the increasing demand for the exceptional educational opportunities it offers. “The first phase of the campus was intentionally built to encourage communication and collaboration across its programmes, with pathways and nodes integrating common areas with labs and classrooms. “We’re looking to continue that philosophy of communication and collaboration as we develop these new facilities.” FBW has an impressive record in the growing education sector in Uganda. Projects include designing and supervising the construction of the Salama Shield Foundation’s education centre in Lyantonde in the west of the country. It was also appointed to masterplan, design and oversee the rehabilitation of the Kaliro Teacher Training College. The group, a major player in East Africa’s construction and development sectors, has operations in Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania, as well as a base in Manchester in the UK. FBW is a major player in East Africa’s construction and development sector, working on high-profile infrastructure projects enabled and driven by international investment. The multi-disciplinary planning, design, architecture and engineering group currently has a workforce of more than 30 professionals delivering high value construction and development projects in the region. It has operations in Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania. The group, which has recruited some of the top talent in architecture, design and engineering in East Africa as part of its plans for growth, offers a wide range of in-house professional building and technical services. They include pre-design services, development consultancy, building appraisals and condition surveys, project management, architecture, civil and structural engineering, MEP engineering, telecommunication engineering, and other building consultancy services.