The governor of Lagos state in Nigeria, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has formally commissioned two housing projects in Surulere and Eti Osa axes that include 132-unit LagosHOMS projects at Iponri in Surulere area, and 84-unit Lekki Phase II housing project in Ikota, along Ajah corridor. According to the governor, the LagosHOMS projects were being packaged to give citizens comfort through stress-free ownership structure and mortgage scheme. “Today, we are gathered to mark yet another fulfillment of our promises in the housing sector. At the inception of this administration, we pledged to provide decent shelter for the people. This promise was made out of the conviction that housing is one of the basic needs of humans and a critical factor that determines quality of life,” he said. Also Read: Kenya to receives US $72.9m from UK to build affordable houses eval(ez_write_tag([[300,250],'constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4','ezslot_0',115,'0','0']));“In the past months, a lot of efforts had gone into completing many of the housing schemes inherited from past administration. While some of these projects are funded through budgetary allocations, others are being financed through joint venture with our development partners,” said the governor. It is with great pleasure that I perform the commissioning of LagosHOMS Iponri by which we are adding 132 homes to the housing stock in this area. Through the same joint venture, we have delivered another 84-unit Lekki Phase II Housing Scheme in Ikota, Ajah. These feats marks successful collaborative effort geared towards bridging the housing deficit in the State,” added the governor. The Iponri and Ajah housing schemes were delivered through a joint venture between the Ministry of Housing, STB Mortgage Bank and Lekki Ultimate Company Limited. eval(ez_write_tag([[468,60],'constructionreviewonline_com-box-4','ezslot_3',117,'0','0']));Furthermore, the governor said that his government is also generating ideas on how it would increase affordability and access for low and middle income families. According to him, more convenient ownership packages would be introduced to make more people come on the home ownership ladder, regardless of socio-economic bracket.