if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};New facilities are to be built for Georgia state’s baseball and softball fields, and they will both hold great symbolic value in the sport. The New Georgia State Baseball stadium is to be established close to the Fulton County Stadium, the site where Hank Aaron hit his 715th record-breaking career home run in 1974. Aaron’s legacy transcends sports and is a symbol of civil rights and equality for all. After his death in January, the University subsequently announced its first intention to build a museum in honor of his legacy. Also Read Construction set to start at Georgia Solar Farm, Atlanta His monument will be erected directly between the Georgia State Baseball stadium and softball facilities as a lasting tribute to the American icon and his legacy will be positioned at the center of the new stadium to highlight Aaron’s contributions and impact on Atlanta. The memorial’s cost is estimated by Georgia state to be around the range of $10 million and will be privately funded. The stadium size is expected to be much larger than the university’s facilities in Panthersville that hold up to 2,500 fans and is located far from the downtown Atlanta campus. “The Georgia State Baseball stadium will definitely help put GSU baseball on the map,” said Ben Moore from the online college athletic recruiting service, 247 Sports. “The program will get a boost playing in the downtown campus.” Panthers head baseball coach Brad Stromdahl said he believes the new stadium will aid in bringing recruits to his program and add to its foundation while also cherishing Aaron’s legacy. “I’m looking forward to the New Georgia State Baseball stadium and the Hank Aaron Museum,” he said. “[Aaron] is an iconic figure and to honor him at our new facility is great for our program and the city.” So far, a date has not been set to break ground on the new athletic facility and memorial, but Cobb says that it is estimated to take about 12 to 18 months to construct them once the money is raised.