if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};While responding to recent complaints about the hardship faced by the Lagos-Badagry Expressway users, Mrs. Aramide Adeyoye, the special adviser for the Lagos State Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, promised that the project will be delivered before the end of December 2021. According to Mrs. Adeyoye, the Agboju to Tradefair segment of the road was completed last year, and the contractors have already completed the construction of the 10 lanes from Mile 2 to Volks, and the Lagos bound service lane from Mile 2 to Okokomaiko. Also Read: Lagos-Badagry Expressway rehabilitation works in Nigeria, 88% complete The scope of the works, she said, included the provision of lay-bys for buses and service ducts, the construction of pedestrian bridges, BRT Bus stops, park & ride and BRT depots, tolled link interchanges, flyovers and toll plazas, road marking, and installation of road signs and traffic lights as well as landscaping works. She also urged all stakeholders to continue working with the contractor, Chinese Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC), to achieve the project’s timely completion, pledging that the completed stretch of the road would be available to vehicle traffic immediately. Mr. Jiang Yaowu, the project manager said that the challenges slowing down construction works include high traffic volume and inflation. According to him, at least 26,000 vehicles use the road on a daily basis and this has contributed to safety and security challenges on the project site. He however assured that the project would be completed in December and appealed for the patience of motorists, adding that temporary routes had been created to ease traffic gridlock. The Eric Moore to Okokomaiko section comprises two toll lanes, two service lanes, one Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) lane, a central reserve for two-way light Rail Mass Transit, and other support infrastructures. Mrs. Adeyoye said that its completion would ease the movement of human and material goods on the international highway and also serve as a boost to international trade. 95