if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Both Simon Woods and David Beglin had worked asArchitects in Kenya for 15 years before the formation ofBeglin Woods in 1992.“Within a week of forming the practice, we were awardedthe refurbishment and extensions of both the Mayfair HotelNairobi and Hemingways Hotel Watamu. These Projectsled us into work for Hospitality clients and the Projectsincluded:” • Flame Tree Restaurant at the Panafric• Samburu Intrepids Lodge• Mara Simba Lodge• Buffallo Springs Lodge• Tortilis Camp in Ambosli• Hemingways Watamu if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};Work on these projects sought to develop a strong designand construction language for Hotels and Lodges in Kenyaand allowed us to explore and use techniques to develop theuse of local crafts, and building methods of sustainability,including energy reduction and waste recycling.We are still working on Hotels and Lodges, having mostrecently completed.• Crowne Plaza Hotel, JKIA• Dusit Princess, Westlands• Sankara, Westlands• Avani Hotel at Capital M Westlands. From 2000 onwards, we undertook a series of ResidentialProjects. These projects included Rosslyn Ridge HousingDevelopments for the US Government, Miotoni Woodsand Miotoni West Road Karen for First Assurance,Lower Kabete Mews for Cannon Assurance, MarulaGardens, Karen, Lone Tree Estate Rosslyn……..and manyothers.   These projects continued established forms of traditional, domesticdesign which had been common in Kenya for many years andwhich featured the use of pitched tiled roofs, dormer windows,stone walls, steel windows, hardwood floors and large landscapedgardens. These projects were highly profitable investments for bothdevelopers and current owners and are still highly sought-afterresidential locations. In recent years, there has been a move away from this style ofbuilding design towards a more modern streamlined aesthetic. Thenew Projects include: Housing at Chalbi Drive, Applecross Road,Miotoni Road and Loresho. There has also been a big increase inhigh rise high density Residential Development in the form ofApartments for sale or rent as service apartments. This corresponds to an increase in the middle-class and more afluentpopulation. These developments Must be built at an extremely highdensity to justify the extremely high cost of urban land which nowexceeds 3 million dollars an acre over most of Nairobi’s high endresidential areas.These developments now offer a complete on-site community withentertainment, retail and social facilities including cinemas, gyms,restaurants, shops, spas and pools. They offer good profit returns todevelopers. These high end Apartments offer alternative and attractiveResidential options to city dwellers seeking comfort and security inurban locations. We have recently completed Nova apartments onWaiyaki Way (sold out), Dusit Princess in Westlands, and Capital MApartments on Muthithi Road (now converted to Dusit and AvaniHotels).   Office buildings fall into several categories. Offices for sale or rentalby developers and offices for their own use by Corporations. Officeaccommodation now requires social facilities, informal meeting areas,daycare centers, recreational areas, shops, restaurants, medical facilities,and transport back up areas. Our recently completed building at UNON,Gigiri is fully supplied with PV generated electricity. Our office designsat Watermark, Karen and AWF Karen now recycle all waste for irrigation. Industrial buildings also give us an opportunity to developalternative solar energy systems on the large roofs, togeatherwith wastewater recycling and disposal systems.Since we started Beglin Woods in 1992, we have been fortunateto be asked by generations of clients to assist with their buildingdevelopment projects. This has given us the opportunity towork with the country’s premier consultants, contractors,subcontractors, and suppliers.Through computers and more recently through internetand social media, we have seen our business and associatedindustries grow into a true global marketplace where virtuallyanything can come from anywhere in an instant. This hasincreased quality and economy greatly and many of the smallbusinesses we worked with 30 years ago, have now grown intomajor international players We have completed 2 press hall buildings for Nation Newspapers inMavoko, a Feed mill building for Bidco Nakuru and are working onan Avocado Oil processing building in Athi EPZ.Industrial Buildings frequently have relatively simple structures buthave sophisticated and complex plant installations often suppliedby overseas specialists.We are completing the School of Humanities building, our 8thProject at USIU. The Library Building, completed in 2005 is still theHub of the USIU complex. Private houses are all the time becoming more sophisticatedand frequently involve state of the art security, homeautomation, cinemas, pools, gymnasiums, barbeques, and guestaccommodation. We have several such houses, built and underconstruction in Nairobi and in towns outside Nairobi.Individual residences are now being commissioned morefrequently by high earning individuals, who have land in theinner suburbs. Houses also take a long time to construct anddo not offer contractors an attractive profit margin. For thisreason, we need to come to design decisions quickly, and mustselect contractors and subcontractors carefully. Our clients and ourselves are influenced on a daily basis byinnovation in design and building components. Computer softwarenow assists in making building shapes and configurations thatwere unthinkable even 20 years ago. We grow with the evolution ofthe profession and the market. We gratefully applaud and congratulate every individual, firm andcontractor who has kindly assisted us on our privileged journey. Welook forward to many more and better projects with everybody infuture years. Asanteni from David Beglin, Simon Woods, Katherine Mung’au,Kunal Patel, Kimani Muchene, Benson Odoyo, Xan Woods, JohnHangalla, Aaron Ogutu, William Shisia, Maurice Ogutu, EmmaMoraa, Justus Gichuhi, James Mwangi, Nelly Wanjiru, SamsonThiong’o, Samwell Mburu and all at Beglin Woods Architects.