if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Arkansas Children’s Hospital in Pine Bluff celebrated its brand new $17.5 million clinic recently, which is set to begin operations on the 19th of this month. The officials from Arkansas Children’s Hospital did a walk-through of the Pine Bluff Clinic and gave the media the opportunity to take a peek at the Arkansas Children’s Hospital Clinic project. Ann Krueger, the vice president of ambulatory services for the hospital, and overseer of outpatient care explained that everything in the Arkansas Children’s Hospital Clinic project was designed with the patient in mind. At one end of the waiting room, there are digital games that project images on the floor, allowing children to make noise and be more active. In contrast, the other end of the room is adapted for a quieter waiting environment, with a “book nook” table for reading. Other fancy designs that liven up the atmosphere include the large circles in the floor across the waiting room that change colors when stepped on, and a digital aquarium attached to the wall. Also Read: Construction begins on 4.8MW Bank OZK solar plant in Arkansas Sunlight was also a major consideration in the Arkansas Children’s Hospital Clinic project design which resulted in windows all around, especially in the exam rooms. According to Krueger, this is particularly helpful in reducing the anxiety that a child could feel from being in an exam room setting. She also said that the Pine Bluff Clinic has three negative air pressure exam rooms for use if a child comes in with what is considered an infectious disease such as chicken pox. The 10,250-square-foot Arkansas Children’s Hospital Clinic project contains 14 exam rooms, with color-coded floor coverings that will help patients and parents navigate through the promises conveniently. The clinic will be staffed with a total of 15 employees which will include three physicians, nurses and other additional staff. Krueger said the clinic expects to see about 12,000 patients in the first year and as many as 21,000 by the fifth year. The donors have given more than $10 million to make the clinic into a reality, but more funds are still needed. Officials stated that an additional $7.5 million is required to cover the construction and operational costs for the first five years. “We are incredibly grateful for the donors who made early leadership gifts to support this project,” said Fred Scarborough, president of the hospital’s foundation. “While we have made incredible progress toward the $17.5 million investment, we need every Arkansan to consider how they, too, can support the ACH Pine Bluff Clinic and help us deliver care close to home to children in this community.”