if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Renowned French laboratory Institut Pasteur de Lille concludes from its tests that Daikin’s range of air purifiers eliminates more than 99.98% of the human coronavirus HCoV-229E in 2.5 minutes. Tested effectiveness against coronavirus if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};As a specialist in air quality management, Daikin sees it as its mission to provide innovative solutions and has been selling air purifiers for over 45 years. Its air purifiers and patented air purifying technology, which is applied in other Daikin equipment, have long since proven their effectiveness against air pollution, as well as seasonal pollen and viruses. To reinforce the claim of the effectiveness of its technology, Daikin Europe N.V. entrusted the French laboratory Institut Pasteur de Lille with the testing of its range of air purifiers. It has now been formally proven that the Daikin models eliminate more than 99.98% of the human coronavirus HCoV-229E in 2.5 minutes. This is an important achievement. Institut Pasteur de Lille performed the test with the virus HCoV-229E, which is a coronavirus closely related to SARS-CoV-2. For safety reasons, the SARS-CoV-2 virus itself was not used. The fact that the two viruses are of the same family, is a strong indication that Daikin air purifiers are important weapons to reduce virus transmission risk and help combat the COVID-19 pandemic. The effectiveness of the Daikin air purifiers is achieved through a combination of the high performance electrostatic HEPA filter, which traps the virus, followed by an intense exposure to Daikin’s patented Flash Streamer technology, which eliminates the virus. The institute has also tested the air purifiers for effectiveness against H1N1, the virus causing seasonal flu. Under the same test conditions, Institut Pasteur de Lille concludes from its study that the Daikin air purifiers eliminate more than 99.93% of this H1N1 virus in 2.5 minutes. This demonstrates that these units are also very performant in combatting flu. Air purification and ventilation are key to healthy indoor environments Daikin air purifiers purify indoor air by circulating it through the unit and letting the air pass a multitude of filters and purifying technologies. Typically the units are used in residential settings, small offices, retail shops, class rooms, medical waiting rooms and doctor cabinets. The airflow of a Daikin air purifier is around 330 m³/hour. This means that the air volume of an average room flows through the unit multiple times per hour. Olivier Luminati, Project Manager Ventilation and Air Purification, who has worked closely with the Institut Pasteur de Lille on Daikin’s testing project, says: “The test results are great news for society. Just when everybody is preparing for a return to office and normal life, we can create the conditions to do so in a safer way. Daikin’s commitment to healthy indoor environments has resulted in a wide portfolio of air filtration and purification products. We use these technologies in our air conditioning, heating and ventilation solutions, for both small and large building applications. We can basically help anyone with a need for clean and fresh indoor air to find the right solution”. Indoor air quality has a big influence on people’s performance and well-being. There are many factors that influence air quality, such as PM2.5 particles, allergens, air humidity and so on. Daikin has recognized this challenge already a long time ago and launched its first air purifier in Japan in 1975. M. Anthony Dimou, General Manager of Daikin’s air purifying business in EMEA: “The obtained results by Institut Pasteur de Lille are a breakthrough for us and society. I am confident that Daikin can become the reference company for indoor air quality management in the EMEA region”. * Detailed test results per type of Daikin air purifier: ‘Daikin device MCK55WVM (commercial name MCK55W), tested by Institut Pasteur de Lille, removes 99.996 % of Human Coronavirus HCoV-229E in 2.5 minutes running time at ‘turbo’ speed in laboratory conditions (air-tight chamber with inner volume 0.47 m³, no air renewal). Human Coronavirus HCoV-229E is different from the virus responsible for COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, but belongs to the same family of coronaviruses.’ ‘Daikin device MC55WVM (commercial names MC55W/VB), tested by Institut Pasteur de Lille, removes 99.98 % of Human Coronavirus HCoV-229E in 2.5 minutes running time at ‘turbo’ speed in laboratory conditions (air-tight chamber with inner volume 1.4 m³, no air renewal). Human Coronavirus HCoV-229E is different from the virus responsible for COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, but belongs to the same family of coronaviruses.’ ‘Daikin device MCK55WVM (commercial name MCK55W), tested by Institut Pasteur de Lille, removes 99.986 % of Influenza A virus subtype H1N1 in 2.5 minutes running time at ‘turbo’ speed in laboratory conditions (air-tight chamber with inner volume 0.47 m³, no air renewal). ‘Daikin device MC55WVM (commercial names MC55W/VB), tested by Institut Pasteur de Lille, removes 99.93 % of Influenza A virus subtype H1N1 in 2.5 minutes running time at ‘turbo’ speed in laboratory conditions (air-tight chamber with inner volume 0.47 m³, no air renewal).’ About Daikin We care for the air. We deploy our years of experience in air conditioning and our passion for innovative technologies to make the air that we live in the best possible air. And we want to do that while caring for the environment and protecting future generations. By 2050 Daikin aims to be carbon neutral in all its actions and the products and solutions it sells. That is our mission at Daikin. Daikin Europe N.V. Daikin Europe N.V. is a subsidiary of Daikin Industries Ltd. and a major European producer of air conditioners, heat pumps, air purifiers and refrigeration equipment, with approximately 13.000 employees across 24 EMEA affiliates. It has 14 major manufacturing facilities based in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Spain, Turkey, Austria and the UK. The headquarters of the Daikin Europe Group are in Belgium, with offices in Ostend, Ghent and Brussels. The company was established in 1973. Daikin employs 2.171 employees on Belgian territory. Market leader for heat pump technology in Europe With over 90 years of experience in the heating and air conditioning industry, Daikin is the market leader in heat pump technology. The company is well known for the Daikin VRV for commercial applications and the Daikin Altherma series for private heating applications. Over 85% of the devices for the European market are also produced in Europe. Total HVAC and Refrigeration Solution provider Daikin’s broad product portfolio allows for tailor-made solutions to all customer’s needs relating to Heating, Ventilation, air Conditioning, air Purification and Refrigeration. In recent years, Daikin has complemented its product portfolio and greatly expanded its market presence in Europe in heat pump technology, as well as commercial and industrial refrigeration. In 2016, Daikin Europe N.V. acquired Zanotti S.p.A., the Italian manufacturer of industrial and transport refrigeration. In February 2018, Tewis Smart Systems S.L. joined the group. Tewis is one of the leading companies in Spain for standardized and customer-specific refrigeration solutions, including CO2 solutions. At the beginning of 2019, Daikin Europe N.V. acquired the Austrian refrigeration company AHT. About Daikin Industries Ltd Daikin Industries Ltd. based in Osaka, Japan, employs around 80,000 people worldwide and achieved sales of around 18,45 billion euros in financial year 2020 (April 20 – March 21). The company is the global market leader for heat pump and air conditioning systems, as well as air filtration. Daikin Industries Ltd. is the only air conditioning manufacturer in the world that develops and produces all important components such as refrigerants, compressors and electronics in-house. 