if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};The groundbreaking for the commercial 40-acre Alico Trade Center project occurred recently at Seagate’s latest business park, which is to be established at Alico Road and I-75 in Fort Myers. Seagate Development Group mentioned that it hosted about two dozen Lee County leaders and Florida business associates during this event. Seagate’s commercial division made a champagne toast after the introductions, and afterwards, the merry group gathered for photos, opportunities and refreshments. Seagate intends Alico Trade Center project ,to cater for the needs of several businesses that have an interest in leasing or purchasing single-tenant, flex or industrial buildings in Alico Trade Center. They will also be working in conjunction with Lee & Associates, who will be responsible for the design, building and lease arrangements, and sales of the pad sites. Also Read: Kushner secures US$80 million loan for Wynwood project in Florida The CEO & Partner at Seagate Development Group, Matt Price said, “Lee & Associates presented us with this exciting opportunity – a testament to our working relationship,” He further stated, “We look forward to not only creating an efficient, zero-hassle, multi-tenant environment for region-based businesses, but in a central location that will change the landscape of Southwest Florida and demonstrate second-to-none design-build processes at the very same time.” Seagate is also currently clearing the Alico Trade Center land for the construction of its Rice Insulation’s 35,000-square-foot facility, with the first rental space consisting of offices, a reception area, conferencing, training and break rooms, workstations, an insulation warehouse, glass, shower door and shelving materials, high-dock and grade-level doors, and 100 parking spots. These developments are scheduled for completion in the last quarter of 2021, and all other mixed use rental spaces such as single-tenant, flex or industrial buildings are to be developed on a continual basis. Matt Price also stated, “Any business looking to expand their operations and create a space that’s all their own, without the typical barriers of a multi-tenant environment, can benefit from our world-class business park. We look forward to further demonstrating to new and growing companies how this area can change their business for the better as well as how our best work can help them conduct their best work.”