if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Mr. Eberechukwu Oji, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) of ND Western Limited, has said that the company’s 10,000 BPD (barrels per day) refinery project in Uturogu, Delta State, will be completed in 2023. The disclosure was made on the sidelines of the Nigeria Oil and Gas Conference & Exhibition (NOG 2021) that provides a platform for the international energy industry to meet with the West African country’s key oil and gas decision-makers to hear policy announcements, explore partnership opportunities and discuss the strategies that will drive the nation towards energy sufficiency. Also Read: New oil discovery made on Eban exploration prospect, offshore Ghana The exhibition was held at the Abuja International Conference Centre in the capital city of Nigeria. According to Mr. Oji, the Front End Engineering Design for the project, which is a Joint Venture with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), the oil corporation through which the federal government regulates and participates in the country’s petroleum industry, has been completed. This, he said will be followed by the taking of the Financial Investment Decision (FID) by the JV parties within the next few months adding that “the period of the construction of a project of this magnitude after the FID is about 24 months. That means that we should be able to complete it by 2023.” The MD/CEO of ND Western Limited revealed that the Niger Delta Petroleum Ltd., Petrolin of Switzerland, and Waltersmith Petroleum and Production Company consortium began its operations in Nigeria back in 2011 after acquiring 45 percent equity of some multinational companies JV with NNPC on OML 34. With a current gas production capacity 400 million standard cubic feet (mmscf) per day, the company plans to become an integrated energy company, with significant downstream and midstream businesses by establishing Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), and Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) plants across the nation. 87