Can you imagine a mapping probe entering a live 2” utility pipe through a standard vertical hot tap? Well, you no longer have to because Reduct’s Live Gas Mapper (LGM-2) is a ‘world’s first’ that does exactly that. Once inside the pipe, the LGM-2 captures accurate 3D XYZ As-built data, while simultaneously providing accurate bend radius information. The ability to enter live gas pipes eliminates downtime during the mapping procedure, meaning there is no disruption in service to your customers. Understanding where your subsurface gas utilities are located after they are buried is a challenge, especially if the location or depth were not recorded during installation, or the asset is located in congested undergrounds. This issue was recognized by the majority of gas utilities in the USA and they requested the Gas Technology Institute (GTI) to seek a solution. Through funding provided by the Pipeline Hazardous Materials and Safety Administration (PHMSA) and Operations Technology Development (OTD), a partnership between GTI, Reduct, and Prisum successfully developed a complete solution. From a single standard vertical hot tap entry point LGM-2 can map a gas pipe up to 300 meters/1000’ length in each direction, thus capturing data and the geographical location of 600 meters/2000’ of live gas pipe. This innovative 320mm long articulated probe, like all Reduct systems, operates autonomously and is not affected by electromagnetic noise. It has a built-in 33kHz beacon for pinpointing the start point, guide point and/or end point of a measurement. The obvious purpose for using the LGM-2 is to obtain accurate XYZ as-built maps, but with its high-frequency logging rate of 100Hz (100 samples per second), key additional information such as accurate bend radius and highly detailed subsidence analysis (over time) is a standard feature. This data will help network engineers with the integrity management of the pipe, increase its lifetime and safety and reduce 3rd party damage risk. The LGM-2 is pushed into the duct by means of a standard fiber push rod, manual or mechanical. Reduct recommends using the LGM-2 in combination with the Condux HTS 200 Operational Duct Rod Pusher Mechanism and the Jameson™ directional tool. The Jameson™ directional tool in turn is compatible with most standard hot taps for 2”-4” pipes. Upon completion of a measurement the recorded data is uploaded to a laptop and Reduct’s X-Traction and X-View data processing software generate measurement results in a matter of minutes. The LGM-2’s data output is compatible with all common GIS platforms and visualization software. 