if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};The lifting and installation of an iconic air corridor in Egypt’s new administrative capital at about 141 meters above the ground, has been a success after 18 hours of hard work by the China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) employees. Described as the Corridor of China-Egypt Friendship or the Gateway to China-Egypt Cooperation, the air corridor connects two office buildings in the NAC’s central business district (CBD). It is made of steel and spans over 31.4 meters with a weight of 161 tons. Also Read: Iconic Tower Skyscraper-the tallest tower in Africa-topped off Reportedly, this is the first time that the Chinese company, which has been contracted to build the NAC’s CBD, adopted in the North African country the efficient technique of assembling the air corridor on the ground before lifting and fitting it mid-air. Arguably, this technique saves both time and effort and it also lessens safety risks. Zhang Yiqing, the manager of the Package Four (P4) project that includes the air corridor, said that the success in lifting and fitting the air corridor is an important achievement for both the Chinese and Egyptian employees who have been working hard despite the COVID-19 pandemic. “All the P4 staff will put in their best effort to achieve the perfect performance of the project on the occasion of the 65th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Egypt,” he affirmed. On the other hand, Zhang Shanyou, the chief engineer of CSCEC Egypt, expressed his gratitude for all the Chinese and Egyptian staff’s hard work and the trust and support of all the relevant partners. “In the face of the COVID-19 virus, we took active measures to cooperate with the Egyptian government in ensuring the livelihood, employment, and production in the country. The cooperation and friendship between the Asian and the African countries prove to have become deeper and stronger through the test of the pandemic,” said Zhang. 88