A total of 34 MW of solar and storage projects spread across 11 different sites have begun being installed in Rhode Island and Massachusetts. The projects are under the supervision of Kearsarge Energy who has financed and will develop them, partnering with financial institutions for debt and tax equity. Kearsarge will own and operate them for the long term as it does with all its known projects, underlining its leadership in sustainable energy development and operations in the Northeast. Also Read: South Coast Rail construction resumes, Massachusetts A 2.8-MW solar + storage project was installed on 12 acres of land that was not being utilized at Haverhill Municipal Landfill in Haverhill, Massachusetts, and is operating under the state’s SMART Program. It is expected to generate US$3.9 million in combined lease revenue, energy savings, and tax income over 20 years. A 3-MW solar array also being installed and is a sustainable energy model and a haven for grazers and pollinators in Tiverton, Rhode Island. The site was designed to provide a conducive environment for local wildlife and to accommodate grazers and pollinators. The facility will host a herd of sheep this year, with a bird habitation and pollinator-friendly flowers beneath and around panels. A high school in Walpole added four solar panels to its parking canopy and rooftop that totals 1 MW and has also planned a curriculum around the new solar system. “It has been an extraordinarily productive year for Kearsarge Energy with the implementation of 11 projects in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. Our strong construction and financing partnerships were critical to our success in this environment and we are both gratified and energized to see these sites commence operations for our many stakeholders. In 2021/22, we’re setting an even quicker pace with 250 MW in development/construction and expansion into Maine, Virginia, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, and Maryland.” said the managing partner of Kearsarge Energy, Andrew Bernstein. 100