Warehouses are increasingly becoming crucial in supply chains, primarily because of the e-commerce change and Warehouse IT Innovations are the new rage. A decade ago, warehouses were just your typical storehouse with nothing different or much significant investment. However, this century is expected to bring more advancement to warehouse management and operations. Currently, shoppers have now moved from physical shopping to an online shopping experience. This has and will continue to impact warehouses depending on delivery time. We have recently seen the advancement of warehouses by introducing management software, robots, and IT systems to streamline operations. Most if not all warehouse operations have now been automated, which is a good thing. As we continue to witness immediate shopping, on-demand warehouse automation is only going to get better. Already we have investors eyeing warehouse automation using IIoT, Artificial intelligence, robotics, and software. Warehouse IT innovation is highly competitive with companies encouraging technology user adoption. Staying up to date with technology is essential for any organization that’s looking to enhance efficiency. Technology user adoption is no longer an option for managers as missing out would mean losing valuable clients. As expected in the adoption of IT, innovations are supposed to help cut unnecessary costs. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')}; Warehouse management systems are among the first IT innovations implemented, with more warehouses digitizing their operations. The designs have proved to be effective in running everyday functions such as goods coming in and going out. The warehouse management systems are amongst the recommended first option for technology user adoption. The system is not so technical and quickly does various functions at once. The installation of WMS applications provides services such as shipping and labor management, shipping order, picking, replenishment, and inventory management. These functions are based on information from Gartner Magic Quadrant for Warehouse Management Systems 2020. A warehouse management system will increase efficiency and productivity to approximately 100% as it minimizes errors. Organizations may opt to incorporate other third-party management systems such as ERP, logistics or may use their standalone system. A warehouse management system puts all the data into a single place and in an organized manner. Wearables are mostly inclined towards ensuring a safe and practical work experience for employees. Industrial wearables stay part of safety parameters at work and health conditions and keep track of the activities’ rate. They are effective in minimizing incidents of injuries. The benefit of wearables is providing instant data feedback and analysis, which managers can monitor and adjust considerably. This, in turn, influences more productivity and efficiency at the workplace. The integration of cloud systems into the warehouse was certainly a surprise. Who would have thought cloud software would come in handy in warehouse management? Well, so far, more and more warehouses have now adopted Cloud-based software with the advantage of not requiring a physical IT department. Logistics companies have accepted and implemented cloud, and it’s only going to get better. AI innovation has continued to be implemented across various fields but has now been introduced into warehousing. Since the innovation of AI, it has become a center of attention, and also since its implementation in warehousing. Lucas company launched into the AI warehousing industry, intending to improve the planning and decision-making process. The tools are excellent for managers and engineers to spot weaknesses and make changes on the spot. The devices provide the insights such as: Autonomous machines have already taken over warehouses. They include: Currently, there are uncrewed lightweight autonomous vehicles already working in warehouses. The UAVs have the RFID scanner technology installed, helping them access and move inventory in the warehouses. The vehicles use algorithms and sensors that prevent collisions while functioning, spending on the company set layouts and patterns. Robots have been used to eliminate unnecessary movement across warehouses, increasing work productivity. Mobile robots have already been implemented across various companies such as Bleum and IAN Robotics. Using their artificial intelligence and sensors, they can quickly move across the warehouse without damaging or knocking down anything. The robots effectively move products faster and pack in an organized manner, also saving warehouse space. It was impossible to imagine a world with self-driving forklifts not until it happened. The forklifts are designed with a 3D camera, front and rear scanners, navigation laser, and warning indicators. The self-driving forklifts are designed in a way they can detect obstacles and adjust just in time. The forklifts certainly eliminate deploying employees to repeat the same tasks daily. Inventory management is never an easy take, especially when dealing with large warehouses. As online shopping continues to grow, inventory size is expected to get bigger, and so is the management. The inventory robots help in managing inventory autonomously and align specific schedules eliminating delays. Internet of things is an all-industry IT solution. Your warehouse will undoubtedly benefit a lot by integrating the internet of things on every moving part. You can control all activities that happen. The IoT has some mistakes and risks likely to occur in the course of work. This could include unplanned accidents such as fire that could lead to millions of losses. Upgrading sensors in the warehouse helps monitor moisture and temperature conditions in the warehouse. This could be effective, especially if storing highly perishable goods in your cold units. An effective method that manages all data in and out of the warehouse eliminates loss of products, diversion, or spoilage. Technology user adoption is vital in the warehouse industry, primarily because of the benefits aligned and effectiveness. The technology eliminates the risks of loss and spoilage of products. You can contact logistics app development to help you develop an ideal system fit and customized for your warehouse. IT integration in the warehouse industry is the way to go. Author’s Bio Eisele Candace has 5 years of experience as a freelance technical writer, specializing in content related to IT technologies (medical, e-prescription software, real estate apps, and so on) and web design. Holder of a Master’s degree in Journalism and Public Relations.She also completed programming courses in  “UI / UX design”, iOS and Python in Mansfield, OH.