if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Honolulu Rail Transit or Honolulu High Capacity Transit Corridor Project is a light rail system under construction in Honolulu County, Hawaii. Construction on the project began in 2011 and is funded by a local tax surcharge and a $ 1.55 billion grant from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). The first phase of the project, which connects the Aloha Stadium and East Kapolei in the Ewa Plain, is due to open later this year, while the second phase of the project will open over the next five years. and cross the city of Honolulu to the Ala Moana Center. Also Read: Honolulu Rapid Authority appeals for US$550 million for operations February 2011 After the railway line was approved with 53% of the votes, construction could finally begin. Plans for the public transit line were made in the 1960s; the project on whether to continue, especially during the elections. March 2012 Honolulu Rail Transit (HART) appoints Dan Grabuskas as Chief Executive Officer and CEO on a three-year contract. Later that year, construction workers began pouring concrete into the foundation that would support the rail pillars, and then the Federal Transit Authority (FTA) and Honolulu City Council signed an agreement for a budget of $ 5 billion, including 1, US $ 6 billion provided by the federal government. November 2015 The project ran into a major hurdle, as the FTA withheld the funds until the Council could prove that it had sufficient funds to complete the project and extended it by five in January of the following year Years ago the general indirect tax surcharge was decided to add $ 1.2 billion in funding. May 2016 The FTA announced that it had estimated the total cost of the 32 km route at 8.1 billion US dollars. In addition, completion of the rail system would be delayed by nearly five years to December 2024, compared to HART’s federal funding agreement, which says full service from East Kapolei to the Ala Moana Center would begin in January 2020. May 2020 It has been announced that the 10-mile section of the route (the first phase) from East Kapolei to Aloha Stadium will be completed. 92