if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Konza (Konza Technopolis ) is a key flagship project of Kenya’s Vision 2030 economic development portfolio. The city is located 60km from Kenya’s capital Nairobi. When complete, it is expected to be a world-class city, powered by a thriving information, communications and technology (ICT) sector, superior reliable infrastructure and business friendly governance systems. The city will be home to leading companies in education, life sciences, telecom, and BPO/ITES. Commercial space for these uses will be complemented by diverse residential neighborhoods, hotels, a variety of retail offerings, community facilities, and other public amenities. Konza Technopolis is expected to be a walkable city, one that includes high-quality public spaces, active and varied amenities, and short commute times between destinations. Below is the project’s timeline and all you need to know: Also Read: Egypt’s new administrative capital project timeline and what you need to know The Government of Kenya approved the creation of Konza Technology City as a flagship Kenya Vision 2030 project. Vision 2030 aims to create a globally competitive and prosperous nation with a high quality of life by 2030. The Government hired the International Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank, to advise on the development and implementation of the project. The Government also commissioned feasibility studies that demonstrated the viability of Konza, the focus on BPO/ITES, and its potential contributions to local economic development. The studies conducted include a Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment, Legal and Regulatory Due Diligence, and a Demand Assessment. The initial feasibility and concept master plan was prepared by Deloitte and Pell Frischmann, a United Kingdom based consultancy. Pell Frischmann proposed the establishment of Konza, a technology park with world class infrastructure that will be sustainable and have inclusive growth as key drivers. During the same year, the Konza Technopolis project was initiated with the procurement of a 5,000 acre parcel of land at Malili Ranch, 60km south east of Nairobi along Mombasa-Nairobi A109 road. The Ministry of Information, Communications and Technology retained a team of consultants led by New York City based HR&A Advisors, Inc. to prepare a detailed business plan and master plan for Phase 1. The Master Development Partner1 (MDP1) team included SHoP Architects, Dalberg, Centre for Urban and Regional Planning, OZ Architecture, and Tetra Tech. The MDP team held extensive interviews with stakeholders, business leaders, potential investors, and led 5 workshops with government officials over nearly a year to develop a comprehensive plan for Konza.   The first phase of Konza City was estimated to create over 20,000 direct and indirect jobs. The city would be developed as a public private partnership, in which the Government will take a minimal role, developing the public infrastructure and regulatory guidelines. President Mwai Kibaki broke ground for the project in Malili marking the start of the development of Konza Technopolis. The Board of the Konza Technopolis Development Authority (KoTDA) was appointed as a special purpose entity to facilitate the development of Konza Technopolis. Infrastructure and parcel development guidelines begin. Access and arterial road construction and preliminary earthwork begin. KETRACO substation & ICTA fiber line completed. Commitment for Konza Data Center with China Exim bank was signed. Implementation of Phase 1A and Technology/ University Bands begins. Major Phase 1 infrastructure construction begins. Parcel Leasing also begins. First Konza Technopolis building ‘Konza Complex’ is complete.   Phase 1 of the Data Centre was completed and the government commenced plans to roll out services of the National Data Centre. It was expected that Government ministries and other agencies would be the early movers to migrate their data to the centre whose services would also be available for private entities as part of the commercialization plan. The Data Centre attracted interest from both public and private entities. The Centre would support the Government’s immediate requirements and business enterprises while providing an environment for implementing and piloting initial smart city services for Konza Technopolis. In July, the Konza Technopolis Development Authority (KoTDA) announced it has discounted part of its land fees in bid to woo investors to the project. ICT Principal Secretary, Jerome Ochieng confirmed the report and said the agency has discounted its standard premium charge for investors paying the premium by December 31st this year and ready to start construction before December 2022. “Our commitment, as a government is reinforced by our actions and in the recent budget allocation for the year 2021/2022, we as the parent ministry have set aside over 70% of the budget for the development of this project,” said Mr. Ochieng. Investors who have since made payments for their parcels of land have been given access to spaces. They include the Kenya Electricity Transmission Company Limited (KETRACO), the National Construction Authority (NCA), Sosian Energy, Bigen Global and Vinjay Sandhu. Others are Geonet Technologies, GSI Kenya, Makueni Housing Cooperative and the Parklands Baptist Church.