if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};Lagos-Calabar Railway line, which is also known as the West-East Coastal rail line is a rail infrastructure project that is planned for development in Nigeria to link Lagos, the largest and capital city of the West African republic located in the south-west region to Calabar, a port city in the south-east region, near the border with the neighboring republic of Cameroon. Also Read: Tanzania SGR project timeline and all you need to know if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-banner-1-0')};The project involves the construction of a total of 1,402 kilometers of railway line in addition to railway platforms, 22 railway stations including ancillary facilities, administrative space, and level crossings. Other works include the installation of safety systems, electrical systems, lighting systems, and signaling systems, as well as the laying of tracks and electricity lines.  Cutting across Calabar, Uyo, Aba, Port Harcourt, Yenagoa, Otuoke, Ughelli, Warri, Sapele, Benin, Agbor, Asaba, Onitsha, Ore, Ijebu Ode, Sagamu, and Lagos, the project is planned to be implemented in two phases. The first phase will run between Calabar and Port Harcourt, while the second phase will run between Port Harcourt and Lagos through Onitsha. Project timeline 2014 In July the Lagos-Calabar Railway Line Project received necessary approvals from Federal Executive Council (FEC). In November, the Federal Ministry of Transport signed an agreement to build the Lagos to Calabar railway line with China Railway Construction Corp. Ltd. (CRCC).  2016 In February, the Export-Import (Exim) Bank of China, one of three institutional banks in China chartered to implement the state policies in the industry, foreign trade, economy, and foreign aid to other developing countries, and provide policy financial support so as to promote the export of Chinese products and services, agreed to finance a part of the project. In April, the Federal Government of Nigeria approved the project plans and announced that it was finalizing a binding deal. In September, CRCC expressed its inability to fund the Lagos-Calabar rail project. 2021 While delivering the 34th convocation lecture of the University of Calabar in March, Chibuike Amaechi, the federal Minister of Transportation disclosed that the government was going to sign a loan agreement for the commencement of the project and before the end of the year, contractors would move to site.  In July he revealed that the London-based Standard Chartered Bank had agreed to fund the construction of the Lagos-Calabar coastal rail with US$11bn out of the US$14.4bn needed for the implementation of the project. 92