Construction of the world’s first commercial modular small reactor has begun in the southern province of Hainan, China. The project, initiated by the China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC), will have a power generation capacity of 125,000 kilowatts. According to the company, the small reactor technology is independent of the intellectual property rights that CNNC has been developing for more than 10 years. The technology itself is another great achievement after the third-generation nuclear power plant from CNNC, Hualong 1. Also Read: Construction begins at SanAo nuclear plant, China The reactor technology is characterized by miniaturization, high safety, short construction times, and flexible use. In contrast to large third-generation reactors like the Hualong 1, which has an electrical output of 1 million kilowatts, which is much higher than the power range of a small reactor, the Linglong 1 can serve the diverse purposes of nuclear energy, such as providing heat for cities, seawater desalination, industrial steam, oil exploration, and other diverse needs as well as power generation. various scenarios such as industrial parks, islands, mining areas, and power supply of high energy consumption companies that meet Hainan’s development needs. Currently, CNNC has built China’s southernmost nuclear power base in Hainan and has commissioned a number of power projects, including the Changjiang Nuclear Power Plant, which has resolved chronic power shortages. The land-based reactor can significantly reduce fossil fuel consumption in China and promote energy saving and CO2 emissions reduction, the company said. Furthermore, according to the Global Times report, SMRs come with the characteristics of high safety, and miniaturization. Besides, the application of SMRs can significantly promote energy conservation and carbon emission reduction and cut down the consumption of fossil fuel energy in China, the CNNC stated. By the end of June this year, China will have built a total of 51 nuclear power plants, including 19 nuclear power units. 93