Construction of the Ortho Arizona, a multi-tenant health care facility for orthopedic providers has been completed. The Orthopedic center was constructed by LGE Design Build and is located in the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community at 8405 N Pima Center Parkway in Scottsdale, Ariz., off the 101 and Via de Ventura Blvd. Due to the facility’s location, the building was  required to meet stringent design requirements. The two-story contemporary design features glass and concrete elements, allowing for plenty of natural light and features a surgery center and imaging services onsite. The 50,000 square-foot workplace is the largest medical office building in the area. The design is focused on improving efficiency and providing doctors and patients with a convenient and comfortable experience. Also Read: New Lithium-ion battery recycling facility to be constructed in Arizona “The design needed to be respectful and adhere to the tradition-driven community guidelines, while also being a fresh, modern take on construction in the community,” said Mike Russo, designer at LGE. “Our team conferred with project specific engineers, healthcare consultants and subcontractors to properly piece together the wide array of detail integral to each tenant’s practice.” Medical office projects can present special challenges to even the most knowledgeable practitioner and demand a specific design intent to ensure safety and meet compliances and requirements. Ortho Arizona adds to the construction company’s portfolio of specialty design and construction by requiring both surgical and imaging suite designs. LGE Design build has built a significant part of its strong reputation in the medical office market; completing construction on more than one million square feet of medical office projects throughout the Southwest. Ortho Arizona has partnered with HonorHealth and Sovereign Healthcare to provide high-quality, holistic health care at this flagship development. Ortho Arizona–Pima Center looks to pave the way for more specialty health care providers to offer clinical, surgical, therapeutic and imaging services in one convenient location