Construction of the Molapo bridge which is expected to connect the community of Molapo to the Jabulani Node and the Jabulani CBD in South Africa is 80% complete. The bridge will improve connectivity and mobility in the Jabulani Node in Soweto upon its completion. It will also create a socially and economically integrated future for the two Soweto communities who, despite living a stone’s throw apart, have been separated by a railway line. The Jabulani Node was identified as one of the City’s signature projects for using Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) as a catalyst to accelerate socio-economic development, by revitalising a neighbourhood for residents, commuters, businesses and visitors. The Johannesburg Development Agency, on behalf of the City of Johannesburg, has been implementing the construction of Molapo Bridge, which forms part of Phase 7 of the Jabulani Node in Soweto, Region D. The Johannesburg Development Agency (JDA) is guided by the overarching frameworks of the National Development Plan, the Gauteng 2055 vision, the City’s Growth and Development Strategy 2040 and Spatial Development Framework. A key enabler of the City’s Joburg 2040 vision, TODs seeks to establish vibrant, liveable communities living in compact, walkable neighbourhoods centred on high-quality transport systems. Also Read: Longest bridge in Morocco the Laayoune Bridge to be inaugurated in 2022 The scope of works for the construction of Molapo Bridge includes extending and upgrading an existing pedestrian bridge at Inhlazane train station, building a new pedestrian and vehicular bridge over a railway line and new approach roads and public environment upgrade. Molapo Bridge is also a project in alignment with the JDA’s objective of supporting the growth and development of strategic economic nodes into high quality, investor friendly and sustainable urban environments. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-box-4-0')};The Jabulani TOD is being undertaken in seven phases and is currently at Phase 5, Phase 6B and Phase 7 of development. Phase 5, currently at 80% completion, entails the expansion and upgrading of Bolani Road and Phase 6B, currently at 90% completion, entail the development of a community and recreational environment consisting of a Jabulani Community Facility and a Safa Safe Hub. 81%