Brightline has officially completed 55% of the Orlando-Miami rail expansion as announced during a ceremony held at one of their facilities. The 170-mile expansion from the airport to South Florida will send passenger trains zipping across the Space Coast and Treasure Coast. The US$4.2 billion projects have brought about 2,000 construction jobs. It includes a US$100 154,500-square-foot higher-speed train maintenance facility, just south of Orlando International Airport that is yet to be completed. Once completed, the Boggy Creek Road maintenance facility will include a train wash, a 30-ton overhead crane to lift 30,000-pound locomotives, an 80,000-gallon biodiesel fuel farm, and 7 miles of maintenance and storage track. Work will continue on Brightline’s 48 bridges and upgrades at 155 railroad crossings. Also Read:Las Vegas to LA high speed rail construction confirmed to begin soon The project is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2022. The company operates a smaller maintenance facility in West Palm Beach, but the Orlando complex is under construction across 62 acres. Granite Construction is overseeing work between Orlando International Airport and Cocoa, while HSR Constructors is the general contractor from Cocoa to West Palm Beach. In total, Brightline’s high-speed rail network will create over 10,000 jobs and over US$6.4 billion in economic impact over an eight-year period. Dignitaries used black Sharpie pens to autograph a 12-foot yellow steel rail near the podium stage. “It’s been a challenging year for all of us. We saw our economy dip significantly. But this is a good indicator that we are going to recover quickly; the construction of the Orlando extension has employed thousands throughout the region and will continue to bring much-needed jobs to our community. We need to continue to support public and private partnerships that will improve transportation and mobility options and meet the needs of our growing population” said Orange County Mayor Jerry Demings.“This is an exciting time for our community and the entire state of Florida. Brightline is fulfilling a longtime vision to bring high-speed rail to Central Florida and providing additional transportation options for our residents and our visitors. I look forward to boarding the first Brightline train to Miami from their station at Orlando International Airport.” said Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer. 82%