Kenya’s president Uhuru Kenyatta has presided over the commissioning of the first berth of the Lamu Seaport in Lamu County. The port also received its maiden ship, the Singaporean MV CAP Carmel. The president also revealed that he will come back to county in a few months accompanied by several African presidents to launch all the three berths of the Port. Berths two and three are scheduled for completion in July and October respectively. According to Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) acting Managing Director Eng. Rashid Salim, larger container ships will be utilizing the seaport and also mentioned that KPA has already sent crucial marine equipment to Lamu for handling cargo transfers to ships, barges, and trucks as the new port prepares to handle international shipments. They include Rubber Tyred Gantries, ship-to-shore cranes, low load trailers, extension cargo handlers, tag boats, trailers, terminal tractors, forklifts, rail chains and channel buoys. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0')};if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0_1')}; .medrectangle-4-multi-115{border:none !important;display:block !important;float:none;line-height:0px;margin-bottom:15px !important;margin-left:0px !important;margin-right:0px !important;margin-top:15px !important;min-height:250px;min-width:250px;padding:0;text-align:center !important;}“The new port has a huge potential for business since it sits right in the middle of major shipping routes for global trade. The port has has the ability to handle post-panamax ships from the international shipping lines that ply the Indian Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea,” he said. He also confirmed that KPA is working closely with the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) and other relevant state agencies to work out modalities of offering incentives to shipping lines docking at the new facility. “As KPA we assure investors targeting the new facility that we will be offering free storage period of over 30 days and tax rebates to woo shipping lines,” he said. Also Read: FG nodes to phase 1 Escravos Seaport Industrial Complex implementation Lamu Seaport is expected to attract transshipment business from Ethiopia and South Sudan and beyond. When fully complete, Lamu port will have 32 deep. The port has the capacity to handle jumbo-sized ships with carrying capacity of between 12,000 to 18,000 twenty-foot equivalent unit (TEUs) ships. The three inaugural berths at Manda Bay are designed to handle 30,000 Deadweight Tonnage (DWT) and 100,000 DWT for general and bulk and container cargo respectively. As part of the Lapsset project, the new transport corridor seeks to link the modern port of Lamu with Garissa, Isiolo, Maralal, Lodwar and Lokichogio and branching at Isiolo to Moyale at the border with Ethiopia and proceeding to the border with South Sudan.