The University of Illinois’ pollinator-friendly solar project has officially been completed. The University’s Urbana Campaign announced that construction on the 12 MW solar farm was completed and planted a native pollinator habitat on the 54-acre site. The project is the second solar farm constructed at the University of Illinois’ campus and achieves clean energy sustainability goals outlined in the university’s Climate Action Plan, nearly four years ahead of schedule. The state’s Pollinator Friendly Solar Site Act requires a minimum of 85 points however the solar project surpassed those requirements and achieved a “Provides Exceptional Habitat” status. Also Read: Construction begins on 200 MW Prairie Wolf Solar Project, Illinois The custom seed mix designed by Natural Resource Services has over 21 different plant types that are native to the area, making the land between and around the panels more resilient while creating a natural environment for a variety of local and migratory birds and insects. In total, the site will contain more than six and a half million flowering plants and native grasses. Solar Farm 2.0 was brought together by the American-owned solar energy firm Sol Systems, which was built with double-faced solar panels, single-axis trackers, and zero waste construction practices. Capital Dynamics will be the owners of the facility while Sol Systems will manage the site for 20 years as per the term of the agreement. if(typeof __ez_fad_position != 'undefined'){__ez_fad_position('div-gpt-ad-constructionreviewonline_com-medrectangle-4-0')};“In only four months, Solar Farm 2.0 has already become an important part of the university’s energy sector,” said Mohamed Attalla, the executive director of facilities & Services. “ It has been extraordinary to watch the Solar Farm 2.0 project make an immediate impact in the learning and discovery processes across campus.” “The use of state-of-the-art technology and land-use practices along with a strong partnership between Sol Systems and the campus is what makes this project so outstanding,” said William Graves, director of originations at Sol Systems.